
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74099 ***


[Illustration:

  FRANCIS J. QUINLAN. M. D., LL. D.,

  President-General of the American Irish Historical Society. 1908–1909.
]




                              THE JOURNAL
                                 OF THE
                   AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY


                                   BY

                          THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE

                          _Secretary-General_


                              VOLUME VIII


                           PROVIDENCE, R. I.
                        PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY
                                  1909




                         LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.


                  QUINLAN, FRANCIS J.     Frontispiece
                  MURRAY, THOMAS HAMILTON           13
                  DOOLEY, MICHAEL F.                17
                  LENEHAN, JOHN J.                  21
                  SULLIVAN MEMORIAL                 26
                  LEE, THOMAS ZANSLAUR              29
                  CARTER, THOMAS H.                 47
                  MCGUIRE, EDWARD J.                62
                  MURRAY, LAWRENCE O.               67
                  JOYCE, BERNARD J.                 73
                  GARRIGAN, PHILIP J.               85
                  ROCHE, JAMES JEFFREY              93
                  COLLIER, PETER FENELON            99
                  COX, MICHAEL FRANCIS             105
                  JORDAN, MICHAEL J.               111
                  DOWLING, VICTOR J.               117
                  DALY, JOHN J.                    123
                  CURRY, EDMOND J.                 133
                  MCCAFFREY, HUGH                  141
                  LENIHAN, M. C.                   149
                  SHEEHAN, WILLIAM F.              159
                  CARTER, PATRICK                  165
                  HERBERT, VICTOR                  169
                  O’HAGAN, W. J.                   183
                  GARVAN, PATRICK                  195
                  DEVLIN, JAMES H., JR.            205
                  CUNNINGHAM, JAMES                209
                  EUSTACE, ALEXANDER C.            215
                  FEELEY, WILLIAM J.               219
                  HASSETT, THOMAS                  223
                  FARRELL, WILLIAM J.              227
                  OLCOTT, CHAUNCEY                 233
                  GAFFNEY, T. ST. JOHN             237
                  SANDERS, C. C.                   241
                  CARROLL, EDWARD                  245
                  HARDY, JOHN G.                   249

[Illustration: AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY THAT THE WORLD MAY
KNOW. FOUNDED, A.D. 1897]




                             INTRODUCTORY.


With the hope that we have succeeded in some measure in living up to the
high standard set by our honored predecessor, Thomas Hamilton Murray, in
the compiling of the Journal of the American Irish Historical Society,
we beg to offer Volume VIII.

It is greatly to be regretted that the illness and death of Mr. Murray
made it impossible to issue a Journal for 1908, and that a break was
necessitated in the series of interesting and ably-edited publications
for which he was responsible. It is hoped, therefore, that there will be
found enough of interest in the records here submitted to compensate in
some small degree for the lapse of a year in the spreading of the
Society’s records before its members. The last Volume by Mr. Murray was
issued on December 31, 1907. Volume VIII contains nothing of the records
of the subsequent year except the account of the annual meeting and
dinner held at the Manhattan Hotel, New York, January 29, 1908. This
account was compiled through correspondence with various members who
were present at that time.

The present incumbent was appointed Acting Secretary-General of the
Society on November 18, 1908, by the President-General to serve until
the next annual meeting, January 16, 1909. At that time he was formally
elected to the office for the ensuing year. There being no data previous
to this election from which to compile a chronological index for this
Volume, its omission has been necessary. Full accounts of all
proceedings will be found, however, and every address delivered at any
event under the auspices of the Society is given in full, everything of
the sort having been reported stenographically by the Society’s
stenographer. Many events of direct or indirect interest to our members
have also been touched upon.

The Society is at the present time in a most prosperous condition. Its
financial status is satisfactory, and its membership is steadily
increasing, already numbering men of national and international
prominence. Its influence is rapidly becoming national, and the
accomplishment of its great primary object, “To Make Better Known the
Irish Chapter in American History,” seems assured.

                                            THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
                                                    _Secretary-General_.

Providence, R. I., April 1, 1909.




                  =American Irish Historical Society.=




  PREAMBLE, CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS OF THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL
     SOCIETY ADOPTED AT THE ORGANIZATION MEETING JANUARY 20, 1897.


                               PREAMBLE.

Believing that the part taken in the settlement, foundation and
upbuilding of these United States by the Irish race has never received
proper recognition from historians, and inspired by love for the
republic, a pride in our blood and forefathers and a desire for historic
truth, this Society has met and organized.

Its mission is to give a plain recital of facts, to correct errors, to
supply omissions, to allay passion, to shame prejudice and to labor for
right and truth.

While we as loyal citizens of this republic are earnestly interested in
all the various phases of its history, we feel that we should be false
to its honor and greatness and recreant to our own blood if we did not
make a serious effort to leave to those generations which will follow us
a clearer and better knowledge of the important work done by men and
women of the Irish race on this continent.

People of this race—men and women born on Irish soil—have been here from
the first, prompted in their flight by the motives common to all
immigration, dissatisfaction with the old order of things and the
resolve to obtain a freer and better life in the new land under new
conditions.

And so we have come together—natives of Ireland, American sons of Irish
immigrants, and descendants of immigrants even unto the seventh, eighth
and ninth American generations—to duly set forth and perpetuate a
knowledge of these things.

In the days to come that lie in the womb of the future, when all the
various elements that have gone and are going to make the republic great
are united in the American—the man who in his person will represent the
bravest elements of all the old races of the earth—we desire that the
deeds and accomplishment of our element shall be written in the book of
the new race, telling what we did and no more, giving us our rightful
place by the side of the others.

To accomplish this is the purpose of this organization. It is a work
worthy of the sympathy and aid of every American who can rise above the
environment of today and look into the broad future. Fidelity, truth,
honor are the watchwords of such a purpose, and under their noble
influences should our work be done.


                              ARTICLE II.
                         OBJECTS AND PURPOSES.

The objects and purposes of this Society are:


  (1) The study of American history generally.

  (2) To investigate, especially, the immigration of the people of
  Ireland to this country, determine its numbers, examine the sources,
  learn the places of its settlement, and estimate its influence on
  contemporary events in war, legislation, religion, education and other
  departments of human activity.

  (3) To examine records of every character, wherever found, calculated
  to throw light on the work of the Irish element in this broad land.

  (4) To endeavor to correct erroneous, distorted and false views of
  history, where they are known, and to substitute therefor the truth of
  history, based on documentary evidence and the best and most
  reasonable tradition, in relation to the Irish race in America.

  (5) To encourage and assist the formation of local societies in
  American cities and towns for the work of the parent society.

  (6) To promote and foster an honorable and national spirit of
  patriotism, which will know no lines of division, which will be based
  upon loyalty to the laws, institutions and spirit of the republic to
  whose upbuilding the Irish element has unselfishly contributed in
  blood and treasure, a patriotism whose simple watchwords will be true
  Americanism and human freedom and which has no concern for any man’s
  race, color or creed, measuring him only by his conduct, effort and
  achievement.

  (7) To promote by union in a common high purpose a sincere fraternity,
  a greater emulation in well doing, a closer confidence and mutual
  respect among the various elements of the Irish race in America, that
  by putting behind them the asperities of the past they may unite in a
  common brotherhood with their fellow citizens for the honor of the
  race and the glory of the republic.

  (8) To place the result of its historical investigations and
  researches in acceptable literary form; to print, publish and
  distribute its documents to libraries, institutions of learning, and
  among its members, in order that the widest dissemination of
  historical truth may be obtained and placed within the reach of
  historians and other writers and readers.

  (9) To sift and discriminate every paper, sketch, document bearing on
  the Society’s line of work before the same is accepted and given
  official sanction in order that its publication may be a guarantee of
  historical accuracy; to do its work without passion or prejudice, to
  view accomplished facts in the true scientific historical spirit and
  having reached the truth to give it to the world.


                              ARTICLE III.
                              MEMBERSHIP.

Any person of good moral character who is interested in the special work
of this Society shall be deemed eligible for membership in the same. No
tests other than that of character and devotion to the Society’s objects
shall be applied to membership.

Every applicant for membership shall be recommended by two members of
the Society before his application shall be considered by the
Secretary-General, and the application shall be accompanied by the dues
in the amounts laid down in the by-laws.

Members will be elected as follows: Candidates may send
their applications—for which blanks will be furnished—to the
Secretary-General, accompanied by the fee as provided in the by-laws,
and each application must be endorsed by two members of the Society. The
Secretary-General shall submit the application to the executive council,
and a three fourths vote of that body by ballot or otherwise will be
necessary to elect the candidate.


                              ARTICLE IV.
                          CLASSES OF MEMBERS.

The Society shall comprise life members and annual members, who shall
pay dues as provided in the by-laws. The Society may also choose
honorary and corresponding members, who shall be exempt from dues but
shall not have the right to vote.


                               ARTICLE V.
                               OFFICERS.

The officers of the Society shall consist of:

  1. A President-General.

  2. A Vice-President for each state and territory and for the District
       of Columbia.

  3. A Secretary-General.

  4. A Treasurer-General.

  5. A Librarian and Archivist.

  6. An Historiographer.

  7. An Executive Council.

(The word “General” herein to be considered equivalent to National.)

The officers of the Society shall be elected annually.


                              ARTICLE VI.
                         THE PRESIDENT-GENERAL.

The duties of the President-General shall be to open and preside over
the Society during its deliberations, to see that the Constitution is
observed and the by-laws enforced, to appoint committees, and to
exercise a watchful care over the interests of the Society, that its
work may be properly done and its purposes adhered to. In the absence of
the President-General a presiding officer _pro tem_ may be chosen.


                              ARTICLE VII.
                          THE VICE-PRESIDENTS.

It shall be the duty of the Vice-President of each state to represent
the President-General at all meetings of state chapters of the Society
and for the Vice-President of the state to which the President-General
belongs, or in which the meeting is held, to represent him at all
meetings of the parent Society when he cannot be present and in his
absence to act as chairman _pro tempore_. In the absence of both the
President-General and state Vice-President, a presiding officer _pro
tem_ may be chosen from the assembled members of the Society.


                             ARTICLE VIII.
                         THE SECRETARY-GENERAL.

The Secretary-General shall keep a record of all the proceedings of the
Society and the executive council. He shall have charge of the seal and
records. He shall issue and sign in conjunction with the
President-General all charters granted to the subsidiary chapters, and
shall with him certify to all acts of the Society. He shall, upon orders
from the President-General, give due notice of time and place of all
meetings of the body; give notice to the several officers of all votes,
resolutions, orders and proceedings of the body affecting them or
appertaining to their respective offices and perform such other duties
as may be assigned him.


                              ARTICLE IX.
                         THE TREASURER-GENERAL.

The Treasurer-General shall collect and receive all dues, funds and
securities and deposit the same to the credit of the American Irish
Historical Society, in such banking institution as may be approved by
the Executive Council. This money shall be drawn to the check of the
Treasurer-General for the purposes of the Society and to pay such sums
as may be ordered by the Executive Council of the Society in meeting,
said orders to be countersigned by the President-General and
Secretary-General. He must keep a full and accurate account of all
receipts and disbursements and at each annual meeting shall render the
same to the Society, when a committee shall be appointed by the
President-General to audit his accounts. He shall present at annual or
special meetings a list of members in arrears.


                               ARTICLE X.
                      THE LIBRARIAN AND ARCHIVIST.

The Librarian and Archivist shall be the custodian of all published
books, pamphlets, files of newspapers and similar property of the
Society. He shall have charge of all documents, manuscripts and other
productions not assigned by this Constitution to other officers of the
Society, and shall keep the same in a place or places easy of access and
safe from loss by fire or other causes.


                              ARTICLE XI.
                          THE HISTORIOGRAPHER.

The Historiographer or official historian of the Society shall perform
the duties usually pertaining to that office.


                              ARTICLE XII.
                         THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

The Executive Council shall consist of the President-General,
Secretary-General, Treasurer-General, Librarian and Archivist,
Historiographer and ten members, all to be elected by the Society. The
Executive Council shall be the judge of the qualifications of applicants
for admission and if satisfactory shall elect the same. The Council
shall recommend plans for promoting the objects of the Society, digest
and prepare business, authorize the disbursement and expenditure of
unappropriated money in the treasury for the current expenses of the
Society; shall prepare and edit—or cause to be prepared and
edited—contributions of an historical or literary character bearing on
the special work of the Society for publication and distribution; may
appropriate funds for the expenses of special branches of research for
historical data and for the purchase of works to form a library for the
Society whenever it shall have a permanent home or headquarters. The
Council shall have power to fill vacancies in office until the annual
meeting, exercise a supervisory care over the affairs of the Society and
perform such other duties as may be intrusted to them. At a meeting of
the Executive Council five members shall constitute a quorum.


                             ARTICLE XIII.
                               MEETINGS.

The annual meeting of this Society shall be held on the third Wednesday
in January. A field day of the body shall be held during the summer of
each year at such time and place as the Executive Council shall select,
due regard being given to the convenience of the greatest number, and,
as far as possible, the meeting place selected shall be one whose
historical associations are of interest to American citizens.

The annual meeting shall be for the purpose of electing officers,
hearing reports and transacting such other business as may come properly
before it. Until otherwise ordered such meeting shall be held in the
city of Boston, Mass. There shall be four stated meetings each year.

Special meetings may be called at any time by the Executive Council.


                              ARTICLE XIV.
                         SUBSIDIARY SOCIETIES.

Chapters of the parent Society may be established in any city or town in
the United States upon the petition of ten persons for a charter, and
such charter shall be issued upon payment of the sum designated for such
in the by-laws.

The President, Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian and Historiographer of
all subsidiary societies shall be admitted to all meetings of the parent
Society as members during their term of office, with all the privileges
of membership except that of voting.


                              ARTICLE XV.
                              AMENDMENTS.

Amendments to the Constitution shall be submitted to the Executive
Council through the Secretary-General at least thirty days before the
meeting of the Society. A vote of two thirds of the members present at
the meeting shall be necessary for the adoption of such amendments.


                                BY-LAWS.

(1) The initiation fee shall be three dollars. The annual membership fee
shall be three dollars, payable not later than the first day of February
in each year.[1]

Footnote 1:

  Amended so that annual membership fee is now $5.

(2) Payment of fifty dollars in advance at one time shall constitute a
life membership. Life members shall be exempt from further dues.

(3) The Executive Council shall provide for each regular meeting of the
Society an address, essay or paper dealing with some topic in the
Society’s line of work.

(4) A copy of all original productions read before the Society shall be
requested for deposit in the Society’s archives.

(5) The annual field-day program shall include an oration, poem and
dinner. Other features of an appropriate nature may be added.

(6) A fraternal spirit shall be cultivated with other American
historical bodies. The Society shall also keep in touch with historical
organizations in Ireland, France and other countries.

(7) Any person elected to membership in this Society who fails to pay
his initiation fee within one year from the date of his election shall,
having been duly notified by the Secretary-General, be considered as
having forfeited his right to membership and his election shall be
cancelled.

(8) A member neglecting for two years to pay his annual fee shall be
notified of such omission by the Secretary-General. Still neglecting for
three months to pay the dues such delinquent member shall be dropped as
no longer belonging to the Society.

(9) The stated meetings of the Society shall be held in January, April,
July and October. The President-General, upon receiving a request in
writing, signed by ten members, asking for a special meeting, shall
cause the said meeting to be convened forthwith.

(10) Ten members shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the
Society, except stated meetings, when fifteen members shall be
necessary.

(11) The general order of business at meetings of the Society shall be
as follows:

  (a) Minutes of previous meeting.

  (b) Report of Executive Council on candidates for membership.

  (c) Balloting on candidates for membership.

  (d) Reports of officers and committees.

  (e) Unfinished business.

  (f) New business.

  (g) Adjournment.

(12) When not otherwise provided, Cushing’s Manual shall be the
authority on points of procedure at meetings of the Society.

(13) No part of these by-laws shall be amended, altered or repealed
unless proposition is submitted in writing covering the proposed
amendment at least thirty days before the meeting when it is to be acted
upon, when, if two thirds of the members present and voting express
themselves in favor of the change, the same shall be made.

[Illustration:

  MR. THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY.

  One of the Founders of the Society, and its First Secretary-General,
    serving from 1897 until his decease June 5th, 1908.
]


It has been deemed necessary that a revision of the above be made in
order to make them conform to the present needs of the Society, and a
committee consisting of Michael J. Jordan, Esq., Hon. Patrick J.
McCarthy, Joseph T. Ryan, Esq., John E. O’Brien, Esq., and the
Secretary-General, appointed by the President-General at Washington, D.
C., January 17, 1909, has the revision in charge.


  GENERAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

The Society was organized on January 20, 1897, in Boston, Mass., and now
has members in nearly all the states, the District of Columbia, one
territory and four foreign countries.

The object of the organization is to make better known the Irish chapter
in American history.

There are two classes of members—Life and Annual. The life membership
fee is $50 (paid once). The fee for annual members is $5, paid yearly.
In the case of new annual members, the initiation fee, $5, also pays the
membership dues for the first year.

The government comprises a President-General, a Vice-President-General,
a Secretary-General, a Treasurer-General, a Librarian and Archivist, a
Historiographer and an Executive Council. There are also State
Vice-Presidents.

The Society has already issued several bound volumes and a number of
other publications. These have been distributed to members, public
libraries, historical organizations and universities. Each member of the
Society is entitled, free of charge, to a copy of every publication
issued from the time of his admittance. These publications are of great
interest and value, and are more than an equivalent for the membership
fee.

The Society draws no lines of creed or politics. Being an American
organization in spirit and principle, it welcomes to its ranks Americans
of whatever race or descent, and of whatever creed, who take an interest
in the objects for which the Society is organized. Membership
application blanks will be furnished on request to the Secretary-General
at his office, 49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I., or to John J.
Lenehan, Chairman of the Committee on Membership, 71 Nassau Street, New
York City. Blank applications found at the end of this volume.

The membership includes many people of prominence and occupies a
position in the front rank of American historical organizations.

The Society is a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State
of Rhode Island and is authorized to take, hold and convey real and
personal estate to the amount of $100,000.

Gifts or bequests of money for the uses of the Society are solicited. We
depend entirely on our membership fees and dues, and if we had a
suitable fund on hand its income would be most advantageously used for
historical research, printing and issuing historical works and papers
and adding to our library. The following is a form of bequest good in
any state or territory:

“I give and bequeath to the American Irish Historical Society ——
dollars.”

If desired, a donor or testator may direct the application of principal
or interest of his gift or bequest.


A FEW OF THE INTERESTING PAPERS READ BEFORE OR REPRINTED BY THE SOCIETY.

“Irish Settlers in Pennsylvania.”

“Early Irish in St. Louis, Missouri.”

“Patriots Bearing Irish Names Who Were Confined Aboard the _Jersey_
Prison Ship.”

“Commerce Between Ireland and Rhode Island.”

“Some Irish-French Officers in the American Revolution.”

“The Voyage of the _Seaflower_.”

“The Defense of Fort Stephenson on the Sandusky.”

“Irish Settlers on the Opequan.”

“Irish Pioneers in Boston and Vicinity.”

“The Irish in America.”

“Goody Glover, an Irish Victim of the Witch Craze, Boston, Mass., 1688.”

“Capt. Daniel Neill, an Artillery Officer of the Revolution.”

“Richard Dexter, One of Boston’s Irish Pioneers.”

“The New Hampshire Kellys.”

“Some Early Celebrations of St. Patrick’s Day in New York City,
1762–1788.”

“Master John Sullivan of Somersworth and Berwick and His Family.”

“Martin Murphy, Sr., an Irish Pioneer of California.”

“Historical Notes of Interest.”

“Irish Ability in United States.”

“The Affair at Fort William and Mary.”

“Incident of an Expedition under Gen. John Sullivan.”

“Irish Builders of White House.”

“Col. Francis Barber, a Soldier of the Revolution.”

“A Glance at Some Pioneer Irish in the South.”

“Walsh’s Irish Regiment of Marine Artillery, French Army.”

“Irish Influence in the Life of Baltimore.”

“A Bit of New York History.”

“The Kelts of Colonial Boston.”

“The Battle of New Orleans.”

“Battles of Lexington, Concord and Cambridge.”

“Matthew Watson, an Irish Settler of Barrington, R. I., 1722.”

“Irish Emigration During the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries.”

“Some Pre-Revolutionary Irishmen.”

“Some Irish Settlers in Virginia.”

“The ‘Scotch-Irish’ and ‘Anglo-Saxon’ Fallacies.”

“Early Irish Settlers in Kentucky.”

“The Irish in South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana and
Tennessee.”

“Hugh Cargill, a Friend of Liberty.”

“The Irish Settlers of Pelham, Mass.”

“Thomas Fawcett, Irish Quaker, American Pioneer.”

“Early New Hampshire Irish; Some Pre-Revolutionary Dennises,
Corneliuses, Patricks and Michaels.”

“The United States Torpedo Boat _O’Brien_.”

“Daniel Morgan and the Battle of Cowpens.”

“Irish Schoolmasters in the American Colonies, 1640–1775.”

“The Irish at Bunker Hill.”

“David Hamilton, a Soldier of the American Revolution.”

“Irish Pioneers in Texas.”

“The Irish Chapter in the History of Brown University.”

“Men of Irish Blood Who Have Attained Eminence in American Journalism.”

“William Prendergast, a Pioneer of Chautauqua County, N. Y.”

“The Battle of Rhode Island.”

“Rev. James MacSparran, Irishman, Scholar, Preacher and Philosopher,
1680–1757.”

“Irish Pioneers and Builders of Kentucky.”

“Rev. James Caldwell, a Patriot of the American Revolution.”

“Great Irishmen in New York’s History.”

“Life and Deeds of Major-General John Sullivan.”

“Irish Pioneers in New York.”

“Irish Pioneers of the West and Their Descendants.”

“Advantages of Historical Research to Irish Americans.”


                   PRESIDENTS-GENERAL OF THE SOCIETY.

 1897.               REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD W. MEADE, U. S. N.
 1897–1898.          HON. EDWARD A. MOSELEY, Washington, D. C.
 1899–1900.          HON. THOMAS J. GARGAN, Boston, Mass.
 1901–1902 and 1905. HON. JOHN D. CRIMMINS, New York City.
 1903–1904.          HON. WILLIAM MCADOO, New York City.
 1906–1907.          REAR ADMIRAL JOHN MCGOWAN, U. S. N. (retired),
                       Washington, D. C.
 1908–1909.          FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, M. D., LL. D., New York City.

[Illustration:

  HON. MICHAEL F. DOOLEY.

  President of the National Exchange Bank of Providence, R. I. and
    Treasurer-General of the Society.
]




   TENTH ANNUAL MEETING AND BANQUET OF THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL
      SOCIETY AT HOTEL MANHATTAN, NEW YORK CITY, JANUARY 29, 1908.


In accordance with a vote of the Executive Council at a meeting held in
Providence, R. I., the date and place of the tenth annual meeting and
banquet of the Society was fixed for January 29, 1908, at Hotel
Manhattan, New York City. President-General McGowan caused notice to be
sent each member as follows:


                 THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

                NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL MEETING AND DINNER.


  _Dear Sir_: The annual meeting and dinner of the American Irish
  Historical Society will take place at the Hotel Manhattan, Madison
  Avenue and Forty-Second Street, New York City, on Wednesday evening,
  January 29, 1908.

  A reception will begin at 5.00 p. m., to be followed at 6.30 p. m. by
  a business meeting. The line will be formed for dinner at 7.30 p. m.

  The reception committee as designated by the Executive Council of the
  Society comprises: T. P. Kelly, John F. Doyle and T. Albeus Adams of
  New York; P. F. Magrath, Binghamton, N. Y.; James L. O’Neill,
  Elizabeth, N. J.; John F. O’Connell, Providence, R. I.; Hon. Thomas J.
  Gargan, Boston, Mass.; D. H. Tierney, Waterbury, Conn.; James
  O’Sullivan, Lowell, Mass.; Hon. William Gorman, Philadelphia, Pa.;
  Hon. P. T. Barry, Chicago, Ill.; Hon. Thomas Z. Lee, Providence, R.
  I.; Hon. John Hannan, Ogdensburg, N. Y., and D. J. McGillicuddy,
  Lewiston, Me.

  Tickets for the dinner are now ready at $3.50 each. They can be
  obtained by addressing T. P. Kelly, Esq., chairman of the Dinner
  Committee, 544 West Twenty-Second Street, New York City. Make checks
  payable to the American Irish Historical Society, and forward to Mr.
  Kelly at the address given.

  Music will be furnished at the dinner by an orchestra and by a vocal
  quartet. There will be other features of an entertaining nature
  designed to make the occasion one of more than ordinary interest.

  Members are at liberty to invite personal guests, and a large
  attendance is cordially desired. Kindly inform us as soon as possible
  whether you intend to be present on the twenty-ninth.

                                Fraternally,
                                                John McGowan,
                                                    _President-General_,
                                                    Washington, D. C.

  T. H. MURRAY,
      _Secretary-General_,
          911 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass.


A goodly number of members responded to the notice, and the sale of
tickets gave evidence that a large gathering would be present.

The Reception Committee was early in attendance and rendered much
valuable service. It greatly assisted the Secretary-General, who was
ill, in the performance of his duties, introduced the new members as
they appeared and arranged the seatings of members for the banquet.

At 6.30 p. m. the annual meeting was called to order by Hon. Thomas Z.
Lee, in the absence of the President-General and Vice-President-General,
and, upon being elected President-General _pro tem_, presided throughout
the business meeting.

Treasurer-General Dooley announced through the Chairman that the funds
of the Society were deposited in the Union Trust Company, Providence, R.
I., at the time of its suspension, and that a plan for its
reorganization had been suggested, but not yet adopted. The funds were
therefore not available for our use and he could not tell when they
would be. In order that the Society might have its funds subject to its
disposal and not be obliged to await a more or less indefinite
reorganization of the Union Trust Company, Mr. Dooley had drawn his
personal cheque for the total amount of our detained funds and deposited
same to the credit of the Society. He asked that we give him an
assignment of our money in the Union Trust Company in order that he
instead of us might do the waiting and take the chances of being repaid.

Mr. Dooley’s generous offer was most cordially accepted, and a committee
appointed by the Chairman for that purpose immediately executed the
assignment of our detained funds as requested.

Upon motion of Mr. Dennis H. Tierney, a vote of thanks was extended
Treasurer-General Dooley for the transaction above mentioned, and
remarks of a most complimentary nature were made by several previous to
the adoption of the vote.

The annual report of the Secretary-General was read and it was ordered
that the same be received and placed on file.

The annual report of the Treasurer-General showing receipts,
disbursements and balance on hand was read, and it was ordered that the
same be received and placed on file.

A number of new members were elected, some of whom were present later at
the banquet.

The election of officers for the ensuing year was called for, and the
following gentlemen, having the unanimous endorsement of the Executive
Council, were by ballot duly elected to the following offices:

                          _President-General_,
                   FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, M. D., LL. D.,
                             New York City.

                       _Vice-President-General_,
                       Hon. FRANKLIN M. DANAHER,
                             Albany, N. Y.

                          _Secretary-General_,
                        THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
                    Seaview, Plymouth County, Mass.

                          _Treasurer-General_,
                           MICHAEL F. DOOLEY,
                           Providence, R. I.

                       _Librarian and Archivist_,
                           THOMAS B. LAWLER,
                             New York City.


                           EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

                           The foregoing and

  Hon. JOHN D. CRIMMINS, New York City.
  Hon. WILLIAM MCADOO, New York City.
  Hon. THOMAS J. GARGAN, Boston, Mass.
  PATRICK F. MAGRATH, Binghamton, N. Y.
  Rev. JOHN J. MCCOY, LL. D., Worcester, Mass.
  THOMAS ADDIS EMMET, M. D., LL. D., New York City.
  EDWARD J. MCGUIRE, New York City.
  JOHN F. O’CONNELL, Providence, R. I.
  JAMES L. O’NEILL, Elizabeth, N. J.
  STEPHEN FARRELLY, New York City.
  CYRUS TOWNSEND BRADY, LL. D., Toledo, O.
  Hon. THOMAS J. LYNCH, Augusta, Me.
  Gen. PHELPS MONTGOMERY, New Haven, Conn.
  Hon. THOMAS Z. LEE, Providence, R. I.
  Hon. PATRICK GARVAN, Hartford, Conn.
  Major JOHN CRANE, New York City.
  Col. JOHN MCMANUS, Providence, R. I.
  Hon. WILLIAM GORMAN, Philadelphia, Pa.
  Col. C. C. SANDERS, Gainesville, Ga.
  JOHN F. DOYLE, New York City.


                         STATE VICE-PRESIDENTS.

  Maine—JAMES CUNNINGHAM, Portland.
  New Hampshire—Hon. JAMES F. BRENNAN, Peterborough.
  Vermont—JOHN D. HANRAHAN, M. D., Rutland.
  Massachusetts—M. J. JORDAN, Boston.
  Rhode Island—THOMAS A. O’GORMAN, Providence.
  Connecticut—DENNIS H. TIERNEY, Waterbury.
  New York—JOSEPH I. C. CLARKE, New York City.
  New Jersey—JOHN F. KENAH, Elizabeth, N. J.
  Pennsylvania—HUGH MCCAFFREY, Philadelphia.
  Delaware—JOHN J. CASSIDY, Wilmington.
  Virginia—JAMES W. MCCARRICK, Norfolk.
  West Virginia—JOHN F. HEALY, Thomas, Tucker County.
  South Carolina—W. J. O’HAGAN, Charleston.
  Georgia—Capt. JOHN FLANNERY, Savannah.
  Ohio—JOHN LAVELLE, Cleveland.
  Illinois—Hon. P. T. BARRY, Chicago.
  Indiana—Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C., Notre Dame.
  Iowa—Rt. Rev. PHILIP J. GARRIGAN, D. D., Sioux City.
  Montana—Rt. Rev. M. C. LENIHAN, D. D., Great Falls.
  Minnesota—Hon. C. D. O’BRIEN, St. Paul.
  Kentucky—JOHN J. SLATTERY, Louisville.
  Kansas—PATRICK H. CONEY, Topeka.
  Utah—JOSEPH GEOGHEGAN, Salt Lake City.
  Texas—Gen. A. G. MALLOY, El Paso.
  California—JAMES CONNOLLY, Coronado.

[Illustration:

  MR. JOHN J. LENEHAN,

  Of New York City.

  A Life Member of the Society and Chairman of the Committee on
    Membership, under whose intelligent efforts nearly 300 new members
    have been admitted to the Society since June, 1908.
]


                         OTHER VICE-PRESIDENTS.

  District of Columbia—Hon. EDWARD A. MOSELEY, Washington.
  Oklahoma—JOSEPH F. SWORDS, Sulphur.
  Canada—Hon. FELIX CARBRAY, Quebec.
  Ireland—Dr. MICHAEL F. COX, Dublin.


Mr. Willis B. Dowd spoke at length concerning our next annual meeting
and banquet and then moved that it be held in Washington, D. C. Mr. T.
Vincent Butler seconded the motion and spoke in support of Mr. Dowd’s
views. The motion was unanimously adopted.

The new President-General, Francis J. Quinlan, having arrived, the
Chairman appointed Rev. John J. McCoy, LL. D., T. Vincent Butler, Esq.,
and S. J. O’Sullivan, Esq., to wait upon the incoming President-General
and escort him to the chair.

The Committee retired and presented Doctor Quinlan, who thanked the
Society in a few well chosen words and immediately began his duties.

At 7.30 p. m. the line was formed for the banquet, and a large number of
members and guests took seats at the tables.

President-General Quinlan presided and grace was said by Rev. Dr. John
J. McCoy.

Music was furnished by a male quartet and an orchestra, and throughout
the evening they led the Society in patriotic American and Irish songs.

The tables were handsomely decorated with plants and flowers and
presented a pretty picture. During the evening a flashlight photograph
of the diners was obtained with satisfactory results. The menu was all
that could be desired.


                             ANNUAL DINNER

                                 OF THE

                   AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

    Hotel Manhattan, New York. Wednesday Evening, January 29, 1908.

                           Cape Cod Cocktail

                            Cream of Celery

        Celery                   Nuts                     Olives

                      Planked Whitefish, Manhattan

     Cucumbers                                Potatoes, Parisienne

                         Filet of Beef, Cheron

     French Peas                                Stuffed Artichokes

                              KIRSCH PUNCH

                       Roast Stuffed Squab, Jelly

                            Salad, Excelsior

     Cafe Parfait                                      Fancy Cakes

                                 Coffee

               Cigars                         Cigarettes

                              Apollinaris

There were present:

Rev. Fr. Curtain; Michael F. Dooley, Providence, R. I.; John F. Kehoe,
Newark, N. J.; Hon. P. T. Barry, Chicago, Ill.; John F. O’Connell,
Providence, R. I.; Hon. Patrick Garvan, Hartford, Conn.; John J. Rooney,
New York City; Hon. Joseph F. Daly, New York City; P. H. Garrity,
Waterbury, Conn.; J. J. Daly, New York City; James O’Sullivan, Lowell,
Mass.; Dennis H. Tierney, Waterbury, Conn.; David Healy, New York City;
T. P. Kelley, New York City; Dr. M. F. Sullivan, Lawrence, Mass.; John
F. MacDonnell, Holyoke, Mass.; Joseph Geoghegan, Salt Lake City; T.
Vincent Butler, New York City; James L. O’Neill, Elizabeth, N. J.;
William T. Cox, Elizabeth, N. J.; John F. Kenah, Elizabeth, N. J.; Hon.
Patrick J. Ryan, Elizabeth, N. J.; Hon. Matthew P. Breen, New York City;
Henry J. Breen, New York City; John Jay Joyce, New York City; Nathaniel
Doyle, New York City; T. H. Murray, Boston, Mass.; Hon. Thomas Z. Lee,
Providence, R. I.; J. Duncan Emmet, M. D., New York City; Stephen
Farrelly, New York City; S. J. O’Sullivan, New York City; Dr. Bryan DeF.
Sheedy, New York City; Judge Lorenz Zellar, New York City; Judge James
J. Walsh, New York City; Michael F. Farley, New York City; Philip Bloch,
New York City; William Crowley, New York City; Roswell D. Williams, New
York City; M. F. Laughman, New York City; Col. Charles F. Crowley, New
York City; William Cahill, New York City; Peter J. Crotty, New York
City; Sidney Williams, New York City; J. A. Lyons, New York City;
William H. Breen, New York City, and many others.

President-General Quinlan opened the proceedings, and the Rev. Dr. John
J. McCoy said grace.

A most eloquent speech was delivered by Mr. Henry J. Breen, son of Hon.
Matthew P. Breen, and he was followed by Hon. John F. O’Connell of
Providence, who spoke concerning the Sullivan Memorial and the work of
the Society in Rhode Island.

Rev. Dr. John J. McCoy was then introduced, and his discourse was
graceful, eloquent and learned, and a beautiful tribute to the work of
the Society.

Hon. Patrick J. Ryan of Elizabeth, N. J., told in a most interesting
manner of the growth of New York and of his experiences as a boy romping
about on the present site of the hotel where the banquet was held.

Mr. T. Vincent Butler of New York made a short speech about our
fellow-member, President Roosevelt, and proposed a toast to his health,
which was drunk amid much enthusiasm.

Dr. M. F. Sullivan of Lawrence, Mass., gave a number of very practical
suggestions as to how the membership of the Society could be increased
and the sphere of its work extended.

Mr. David Healy of New York spoke of the supreme importance of the work
of the Society in centering the light of organized, intelligent and
painstaking research upon Ireland’s part in the making of American
history; of her contributions to America’s greatness, and the proud
place which has been honorably won by her children as an integral part
of American life, American ideals, and American nationality.

“One of the great disadvantages with which the Irish element in American
life has had to deal,” said Mr. Healy, “has been the fact that histories
and school text-books, current in the English speaking world, have been
too largely the product of minds influenced and prejudiced by inherited
anti-Irish animosities and pro-English traditions.

“The Irish have been considered as pre-eminently a martial race because
of their persistent and unconquerable struggles for a score of
generations to vindicate the principle of Irish nationality.

“It is true that the Celtic race has also been universally awarded an
exalted place in the realm of poetry, oratory and song, as well as in
devotion to family and in faithfulness to principle. It remains for the
American Irish Historical Society to show other and equally important
and admirable characteristics of the Irish race, and to point to other
fields wherein Irishmen have distinguished themselves in meeting the
current and pressing problems of America’s rapid and unparalleled
development.

“It remains for us to realize and to show to others that not only was it
the Irishman’s pick that brought the earth’s hidden treasures to the
surface, his shovel that made ready for the iron rail across the
continent, but it was Irish brain and enterprise largely that developed
the mines and constructed the steel pathway between the East and the
West, thus making a national unit qualified and competent to deal with
the nations of the world.

“In the great life current of American nationality, the rich red blood
of the Celt has been a dominant and fructifying tributary.

“It also remains for us to realize our shortcomings and to aim for the
highest ideals, not to be content with a leading place in the world of
military renown, financial, industrial and commercial enterprise. We
should earnestly seek correspondingly high places in the realm of
philanthropy, moderation and universal brotherhood.”

During the evening the Sullivan Memorial Committee having in charge the
erection and dedication of a bronze memorial at the State House in Rhode
Island to Maj.-Gen. John Sullivan, made a report through Judge Lee, its
chairman, showing substantial progress and an intention to dedicate the
memorial some time during the present year.

Mr. Dennis H. Tierney made stirring remarks concerning “The Star
Spangled Banner” as a patriotic song taken as a whole, and deplored the
disposition of so many public bodies to leave out parts of it.

After remarks by other members the company dispersed, having
participated in one of the most entertaining and instructive banquets
ever held by the Society.

                                        THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
                                                    _Secretary-General_.




[Illustration]

                         THE SULLIVAN MEMORIAL.


  DISTINGUISHED GATHERING OF MEMBERS AND GUESTS PRESENT—PROCEEDINGS IN
                                 FULL.

An event of much historical significance to Rhode Island, and indeed to
the entire country, took place under the auspices of the Society at the
Rhode Island State House on Wednesday, December 16, 1908, when an
impressive bronze memorial was dedicated to the memory of Major-General
John Sullivan, one of Rhode Island’s Revolutionary heroes.

The memorial, which most appropriately commemorates the services of
General Sullivan to his race, his country and his State, is placed in a
fitting position in the broad corridor of the main entrance to the
capitol. Large, beautifully designed and in every way worthy of its
mission, it immediately claims the attention of everyone who enters the
State House. It has already been the object of favorable comment from
many distinguished people, and is acknowledged to be a credit not only
to the memory of the distinguished soldier, but also to the Society
through whose efforts it was placed in its present position.

The exercises on the day of the unveiling were in every way worthy of
such an occasion. People of distinction in every walk of life were
present, all the historical organizations of the State were represented
by officers and members, and addresses befitting the event were
delivered by men of prominence in public life and in historical
research. Col. David C. Robinson, of New York, a well-known student of
history and a most eloquent speaker, was the orator of the day, and
inspiring speeches were made by Dr. Francis J. Quinlan, of New York,
President-General of the Society; Gov. James H. Higgins, of Rhode
Island; Governor-elect Aram J. Pothier; ex-Governor Charles Warren
Lippitt; Mayor Patrick J. McCarthy, of Providence; and Gen. William
Ames, chairman of the State House Commission. Hon. Thomas Z. Lee, of
Providence, chairman of the Sullivan Memorial Committee, presided. The
exercises took place in the presence of a large gathering and one
thoroughly representative of the public and social life of the city and
State.

[Illustration:

  MR. THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,

  Secretary-General of the American Irish Historical Society.
]

Following the dedicatory exercises luncheon was served at the
Narragansett Hotel, the Society’s headquarters, and this also was
followed by a number of brief addresses from well-known Rhode Islanders
and members of the Society from other States.


The proceedings at the State House began at noon, Judge Lee making the
opening address. He said:


    “_Honored Guests, Members of the American Irish Historical Society,
      Ladies and Gentlemen_:

  “We are assembled in the Rhode Island State House today to dedicate a
  memorial in honor of Maj. Gen. John Sullivan whose service to the
  country and this State during the war of the Revolution is familiar to
  every American, and whose career as a soldier, statesman and jurist
  will be eloquently depicted by those who will be presented to you
  later. My remarks will be confined to a short history of the American
  Irish Historical Society under whose auspices the memorial was
  erected, and a reference to the movement and spirit which prompted the
  work.

  “The American Irish Historical Society was organized in Boston,
  January 20th, 1897. Certain gentlemen interested in historical work,
  believing that proper recognition had not always been given by
  historians and others to the part taken in the settlement,
  foundations, upbuilding and general affairs of the United States by
  those of Irish descent, brought forth the idea of a society, national
  in its scope, that should be devoted to making better known the Irish
  Chapter in American history, by giving plain recitals of facts,
  correcting errors, supplying omissions, discouraging prejudice,
  establishing right and truth, and giving rightful place and just due
  to historical matters concerning American citizens of Irish nativity,
  blood or extraction. Invitations were sent out by these gentlemen, and
  an enthusiastic meeting took place, at which representatives from
  seventeen States were present; and the following were elected the
  first officers of the Society:


  “Rear Admiral Richard Worsam Meade, U. S. Navy, of Washington,
  President-General; Mr. Osborne Howes of Massachusetts,
  Vice-President-General; Hon. John C. Linehan of New Hampshire,
  Treasurer-General; Thomas Hamilton Murray of Rhode Island,
  Secretary-General; and Thomas B. Lawler of New York, Librarian and
  Archivist.

  “The first Executive Council consisted of the foregoing and Mr. James
  Jeffrey Roche of Boston, Hon. Robert Ellis Thompson of Philadelphia,
  Hon. Theodore Roosevelt of New York, Hon. Edward A. Moseley of
  Washington, Mr. Augustus St. Gaudens of New York, Mr. Joseph Smith of
  Lowell, T. Russell Sullivan, a direct descendant of General Sullivan,
  of Boston, and Hon. Maurice F. Egan of Washington.

  “The first Board of State Vice-Presidents was as follows: Maine, Mr.
  James Cunningham of Portland; New Hampshire, Mr. T. P. Sullivan of
  Concord; Vermont, Mr. Thomas W. Moloney of Rutland; Massachusetts, Mr.
  Osborne Howes of Boston; Rhode Island, Mr. M. Joseph Harson of
  Providence; Connecticut, Mr. Joseph F. Swords of Hartford; New York,
  General James R. O’Beirne of New York City; New Jersey, Hon. William
  McAdoo, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, of Jersey City; Pennsylvania,
  General St. Clair A. Mulholland of Philadelphia; South Carolina,
  Ex-United States Senator M. C. Butler of Edgefield; Georgia, Ex-United
  States Senator Patrick Walsh of Atlanta; Ohio, Rev. George W. Pepper
  of Cleveland; Illinois, W. J. Onahan of Chicago; Michigan,
  Ex-Congressman Thomas A. E. Weadock of Detroit; Minnesota, Mr. Daniel
  W. Lawler of St. Paul; Missouri, Mr. Richard E. Kerens of St. Louis;
  District of Columbia, Mr. J. D. O’Connell of Washington.

  “The work that the Society has undertaken is worthy of the sympathy
  and aid of every American who is interested in the past, present and
  future of this, the greatest country on earth; and in doing its work
  the watchwords of the Society are Fidelity, Truth and Honor, and we
  feel and know what the influence and inspiration of these words mean.

  “One of the preambles in the Constitution reads: ‘While we as loyal
  citizens of this Republic are earnestly interested in all the various
  phases of its history, we feel that we should be false to its honor
  and greatness and recreant to our own blood if we did not make a
  serious effort to leave to those generations which will follow us, a
  clearer and better knowledge of the important work done by men and
  women of the Irish race in the United States.’

  “The broad scope of our work may be comprehended from a statement of
  our objects and purposes:


    “(1) The study of American history generally.

    “(2) To investigate, especially, the immigration of the people of
    Ireland to this country, determine its numbers, examine the sources,
    learn the places of settlement; and estimate the influence on
    contemporary events in war, legislation, religion, education and
    other departments of human activity.

    “(3) To examine records of every character, wherever found,
    calculated to throw light on the work of the Irish element in this
    broad land.

    “(4) To endeavor to correct erroneous, distorted and false views of
    history, where they are known, and to substitute therefor the truth
    of history, based on documentary evidence, and the best and most
    reasonable tradition, in relation to the Irish race in America.

    “(5) To encourage and assist the formation of local societies in
    American cities and towns for the work of the parent Society.

    “(6) To promote and foster an honorable and national spirit of
    patriotism, which shall know no lines of division, which shall be
    based upon loyalty to the laws, institutions and spirit of the
    Republic to whose upbuilding the Irish element has unselfishly
    contributed in blood and treasure, a patriotism whose simple
    watchwords shall be ‘true Americanism’ and ‘human freedom,’ and
    which has no concern for any man’s race, color or creed, measuring
    him only by his conduct, effort and achievement.

    “(7) To promote by union in a common high purpose, a sincere
    fraternity, a greater emulation in well doing, a closer confidence
    and mutual respect among the various elements of the Irish race in
    America, that by putting behind it the asperities of the past, it
    may unite in a common brotherhood with its fellows for the honor of
    the race and the glory of the Republic.

    “(8) To compile the results of its historical investigations in
    suitable literary form; to print, publish and distribute its
    documents among libraries, educational institutions and its own
    membership with a view to the wide dissemination of historical
    truths, and in order that such data may be placed within the reach
    of historians and other writers and readers.

    “(9) To discriminate every paper, sketch and document bearing on the
    work of the Society before the same is accepted and given official
    sanction, in order that its publication may be a guarantee of its
    historical accuracy; to do its work without passion or prejudice, to
    view acknowledged facts in the true scientific historical spirit;
    and, having reached the truth, to give it to the world.


  “Some two years ago the movement for the erection of this memorial was
  started. The first suggestion came from Mr. Thomas Hamilton Murray,
  the late honored Secretary-General of the Society. The Rhode Island
  members at once manifested a deep interest, formed themselves into a
  committee, and, in due time, solicited among their number
  subscriptions for this memorial. These subscriptions came in very
  satisfactorily, and, when we were assured that it was possible to
  erect a suitable memorial, a sub-committee of the general committee
  conferred with the Board of State House Commissioners, who assigned to
  us the most appropriate space in the State House, beside the cases of
  flags carried by Rhode Island regiments in the different wars.

  “The memorial has been erected with the aid of Rhode Island
  subscriptions, with one or two exceptions. It was designed by the
  brilliant young sculptor, Mr. John G. Hardy, under whose direction it
  was executed by the W. J. Feeley Company, of Providence.

  “I now take great pleasure in behalf of the American Irish Historical
  Society and in behalf of its committee, in presenting to the State of
  Rhode Island the Sullivan memorial, which Mr. Hardy will now unveil.
  (At this point the flags draping the memorial were drawn aside by the
  sculptor.)

  “And now I have the great honor to present to you a gentleman
  well-known and highly-honored by all Rhode Islanders, one who has
  shown deep interest in this, as in all other worthy projects, Hon.
  James H. Higgins, Governor of Rhode Island.”


Governor Higgins spoke as follows:


  “_Ladies and Gentlemen_: In behalf of the State of Rhode Island, I am
  not only pleased but proud indeed to accept this splendid memorial.
  Rhode Island has a particular interest in the career and achievements
  of General Sullivan. He was delegated to the command of the forces in
  Rhode Island largely through the recommendation of General Greene, the
  greatest soldier of all in the Revolution next to Washington. Through
  the joint recommendations of Washington and Greene, Sullivan was
  placed in command of the forces in this State.

  “There was perhaps no State in the Union which, in proportion to its
  size and population, suffered more of the hardships of that great
  struggle than our own. Some historians have suggested that one section
  of our State, Newport and the Island of Rhode Island, have never
  recovered from the blow dealt it through the long occupation of that
  section of the State by the British forces. We of Rhode Island,
  therefore, have a particular interest in the efforts of General
  Sullivan to expel the British from this State.

  “We are proud, therefore, to know that the American Irish Historical
  Society has taken this matter up and has shown such active interest in
  perpetuating the memory and the exploits of General Sullivan. I am
  sure that I can say on behalf of our united citizenship that the State
  appreciates this activity, this patriotism, on the part of the
  American Irish Historical Society, and we want to say to you, sirs,
  that the fruit of your interest—this memorial—will ever be preserved
  by our State as a remembrance of his splendid achievements, as well as
  of the generosity and the patriotism of the organization which
  prompted it. May your activity, my friends, be continued throughout
  the length and breadth of the land and throughout the entire period of
  your career in the same creditable and patriotic manner that has
  characterized your work concerning General Sullivan.

  “Again, sirs, I am pleased to accept in behalf of our State this
  splendid remembrance, to assure you of our profound appreciation, and
  to say that it shall ever remain as a memento of your patriotism and
  character, of the gratitude and appreciation of our good State, as an
  inspiration to all future generations and to all visitors to this
  splendid Capitol, of the value and eternity of that thankfulness which
  a grateful people feel for those who serve them well.

  “It is now my pleasure to turn the memorial over to General William
  Ames, the Chairman of the State House Commission, in whose trustworthy
  hands this monument will be placed and from whom I am sure it will
  receive the same careful and patriotic attention that all his other
  duties have received in connection with the management of our splendid
  State Capitol. I am pleased, therefore, to introduce to you one of our
  most honored fellow citizens, General William Ames, who will accept in
  behalf of the State House Commission.”


General Ames responded as follows:


  “_Your Excellency, Members of the American Irish Historical Society,
  Ladies and Gentlemen_: As Chairman of the Commission having in its
  care and keeping this beautiful State House it is my privilege to bid
  you welcome here today. We are assembled, not for an ordinary
  occasion, but for an extraordinary one. We are here to inscribe upon
  this marble wall the name of one who was patriot, soldier and
  statesman, the commander who planned and fought the Battle of Rhode
  Island in 1778.

  “General John Sullivan passed on long years ago to make his final
  report to the great Commander of us all. Yet we have treasured his
  memory, and through the years it has grown ever dearer to the hearts
  of all patriotic Americans—to us of Rhode Island more than all. And
  now that love has found fitting expression in this memorial, which
  shall commemorate through the coming ages his patriotism, his
  devotion, and his loyal services to his country.

  “A State can perform no more graceful act than to make public record
  of the deeds and accomplishments of its famous sons. It therefore
  gives me great pleasure, and I deem it a high honor, to accept for the
  State House Commission the custody and care of the beautiful memorial
  placed upon these walls by the American Irish Historical Society.”


At the conclusion of General Ames’ acceptance Chairman Lee introduced
Mayor McCarthy in the following words: “The thanks of the American Irish
Historical Society are due and are hereby tendered to General Ames and
to Hon. James M. Scott and Col. J. Edward Studley, the other members of
the Board of State House Commissioners, for their great courtesy to us.
It was to them we first addressed ourselves for permission to place our
memorial to General Sullivan in the State House, and when it was ready
for its permanent position a few weeks ago, we went to them again
concerning the dedicatory exercises. Our comfortable seating was
provided for, the freedom of this beautiful capitol extended us and an
ample force of employees placed at our disposal. We may well be grateful
for the uniform courtesy and consideration that marked all the
Commission’s dealing with our Society.

“The Secretary of our committee is a very worthy member of the Society.
As I happened to be the Chairman, it was my privilege to sign my name
over his in issuing the invitations. It is the first time I have ever
had an opportunity of putting my name before that of His Honor the
Mayor, and I enjoyed the opportunity. But now, after doing his work as
Secretary of the committee very faithfully, he has tendered his
resignation, which we have most regretfully accepted, in order that he
might do his duty as Chief Executive of the City of Providence. I have
the honor to introduce to you our esteemed fellow-member, Hon. Patrick
J. McCarthy of Providence, who will, I am sure, extend to us a warm
welcome to the principal city of the State over the destinies of which
he presides so ably.”

Mayor McCarthy said:


  “_Mr. Chairman, Fellow Members of the American Irish Historical
  Society, Ladies and Gentlemen_: I am deeply sensible of the honor my
  official position and duty brings me on this occasion as Mayor of
  Providence in greeting the representatives of The American Irish
  Historical Society and its distinguished guests from many states; I
  tender you a ‘Providence Welcome,’ and the freedom of the city.

  “I thank the Society for its munificent gift of the beautiful bronze
  memorial, which commemorates the heroic deeds of Major General John
  Sullivan of the Continental Army and his services to his native State
  (New Hampshire) as citizen, legislator, jurist and governor, and also
  to the United States as a member of Congress.

  “The people of Providence thank the State House Commissioners for
  allotting space for the memorial in the Capitol Building of Rhode
  Island; it is an appropriate place for a memento of the hero of the
  Battle of Rhode Island. The good deeds of men live after them. General
  Sullivan’s life was spent in the service of his state and country. He
  was generously endowed by nature, with the mental and physical
  qualities that are characteristic of his race, which enabled him to
  perform his duty on the field, on the bench, as chief magistrate of
  his State, and as a citizen, courageously and zealously with loyalty
  to God and country—seeking honor only in the discharge of duty.

  “The history of his life work survives him. We are assembled to honor
  his memory. The memorial you have this day placed in this State House
  is a page in bronze, of the history of the early struggles of our
  countrymen for National Independence, equal rights, and freedom—a page
  which future generations will read with inspiration to emulate the
  honorable career of General Sullivan.

  “We honor ourselves in dedicating this monument to his memory.
  Providence is grateful to the Society for possession of it within the
  city, and is modestly proud of the fact that it is the product of a
  Providence artist and establishment.

  “The dedication of permanent monuments in grateful recognition of the
  noble service of good men inspires others to heroic deeds and
  sacrifices, and perpetuates the history of such men and their
  achievements.

  “The American Irish Historical Society, in placing this beautiful
  memorial in Rhode Island, commemorates one of the early battles in
  support of the Declaration of Independence and for national separation
  of the Colonies from Great Britain, fought by an American General of
  the Irish race, ever loyal to the cause of freedom and equality and
  commends the history of his life, and the history of the Irish race in
  America to all men of good will.”


  Chairman Lee: “A generous response to our invitations has been
  received, nearly all our invited guests being present. We have
  received letters of regret, however, from Rev. W. H. P. Faunce,
  President of Brown University, Hon. Asa Bird Gardiner, Rt. Rev. Mathew
  Harkins and one or two others whose letters are not this moment before
  me. Our fellow-member, the President of the United States, in a letter
  to us, tenders his regrets at being unable to be present, and cites
  urgent business at home as the reason. Judging from the accounts in
  the morning papers about his trouble with the yellow journals, I take
  it he is pretty busy at this time in Washington.

  “We have letters of regret from other members of the Society who are
  unable to be present. I will read the names only. Rt. Rev. Philip J.
  Garrigan, Bishop of Sioux City; Rt. Rev. M. J. Hoban, Bishop of
  Scranton; Hon. W. Bourke Cockran of New York; John Moriarty of
  Waterbury, Conn.; J. B. Spillane of New York; M. C. O’Brien, M. D., of
  New York; James H. Devlin, Jr., of Boston, Mass.; Rev. John J. McCoy,
  LL. D., of Worcester, Mass.; John W. Bourlet of Concord, N. H.; Rev.
  Gerald P. Coghlan of Philadelphia; Hon. Willis B. Dowd of New York;
  Richard Worsam Meade of New York; Patrick Gallagher of New York;
  Edward J. Brandon of Cambridge, Mass.; J. C. Griffin of Skowhegan,
  Me.; W. P. Regan of Lawrence, Mass.; W. J. O’Hagan of Charleston, S.
  C.; John J. Slattery of Louisville, Ky.; John F. Doyle of New York; P.
  F. McBreen of New York; John J. Keenan of Boston, Mass.; William
  Francis Byrnes, M. D.; Hon. J. C. Monaghan of New York; Wiliam B.
  Sullivan of Boston, Mass.; Hon. P. J. Ryan, Mayor-Elect of Elizabeth,
  N. J.; H. M. Cox, M. D., of New York; Dr. George McAleer of Worcester,
  Mass.; William Gilbert Davies; Charles V. Dasey of Boston, Mass.;
  Finley Peter Dunne of Chicago; Hon. John J. McDonough of Fall River,
  Mass.; Eugene Lynch of Boston, Mass.; Stephen Farrelly of New York;
  Mitchell McDonahue; Henry L. Joyce of New York; Major E. J.
  O’Shaughnessy of New York; Lawrence Clancy of Oswego, N. Y.; Rt. Rev.
  Thomas J. Conaty, Bishop of Monterey, Los Angeles, Cal.; Judge Mathew
  Breen of New York; Capt. James Connolly of Coronado, Cal.; Gen. A. G.
  Malloy of El Paso, Texas; John J. Daly of New York; Hon. Edward A.
  Moseley of Washington; Judge Victor J. Dowling of New York; Rev. M. J.
  Cooke of Fall River and Rev. Cyrus Townsend Brady of Toledo, Ohio.

  “Before presenting the orator of the day I desire to say to all
  members who have not visited the Society’s headquarters at the
  Narragansett Hotel that luncheon will be served there after the
  ceremonies here; delegates of all the organizations represented in
  response to our invitation are also cordially invited to join us at
  luncheon. The headquarters are in room 10 at the hotel, and luncheon
  will be served in the main dining-room immediately upon our arrival
  there.

  “The Society is fortunate in having secured for the principal speaker
  today a gentleman who knows perhaps more about the life and works of
  General Sullivan than does any other in the United States; a statesman
  whose record is widely known, and whose voice has been heard in
  discussion of historical and other matters in the New York capitol at
  Albany on many occasions. The son of a former governor of New York, he
  has always been identified with New York institutions and New York
  laws. Through his efforts the Legislature of that State recently
  appropriated $10,000 for the purpose of erecting a suitable memorial
  to General Sullivan, and, while the purposes of that resolution have
  not yet been fulfilled, it will be but a short time before a fitting
  tribute is paid by the State of New York to the memory of Major
  General Sullivan. And the credit for that tribute will be due in large
  part to the gentleman I now have the honor to introduce, Col. David C.
  Robinson, of Elmira, N. Y.”


Colonel Robinson spoke as follows:


  “_Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency the Governor, Members of the American
  Irish Historical Society, Ladies and Gentlemen_: I should do less than
  justice to the emotions of the hour if I did not, at the outset,
  express my high appreciation of and my profound thanks for the honor
  done me in the invitation from your Society to voice our mutual
  sentiments upon so important an occasion as this. It is an honor to be
  invited as a spectator to take part in such a ceremony as this; it is
  a higher honor to be accounted worthy even by a few to say a word on
  such an occasion; it is honor most of all that I have your unanimous
  invitation to say that which I may be able to in memory of one of the
  noblest and purest characters on whom the sun of history has ever
  shone.

  “It has been the habit of my life, my friends, to speak without a
  note; the professional training of many years has made it easier. I do
  remember many, very many things about Major General John Sullivan and
  his life; I do not remember all that I should mention, for the line is
  long, and I am, therefore, contrary to my usual custom, obliged to ask
  you to bear with me while I refresh my recollection from time to time
  with a memorandum of some of the most distinguished services with
  which this man’s life was filled, to the end that I may impress the
  lesson which speaks from this memorial, which speaks from the
  long-drawn procession of brave and good and kind deeds with which the
  life of the one whom we commemorate today is surrounded.

  “And first, before I enter on that which I would say of this memorial
  and of him to whose memory it is dedicated, I want to congratulate
  this Society on that which it has even in the few years of its
  existence accomplished, and on the labors, increased in volume every
  year, by which it makes known the Irish chapter in American history.

  “To trace that which we owe to the line of blood of which this man was
  one of the most illustrious examples, is a duty which belongs to every
  student of American history. Let us find, if we may, wherein lay that
  in which he so far exceeded most of his fellowmen. Let us make it a
  lesson not alone to say that this man was one of the greatest of
  American Irish or Irish Americans, but that he illustrated a trait of
  character which Americans and Irish American citizens all ought to
  follow, ought to teach their children to follow, ought to endeavor to
  perpetuate in the thoughts, the work, the labors of this land.

  “Now we are met principally to do honor to the memory and the merits
  of a brave and good man; that is our purpose; but in our acts and
  words today, my friends, we do honor not only to him and to his
  memory, but we do honor to ourselves and our countrymen. He belongs to
  us and we appreciate it. The laurels which we lay on the graves of
  such as he, who periled life, limb, fortune, happiness and health that
  we might enjoy the blessings which are ours today, are laurels piled
  upon our own characters, our own qualities.

  “From this beautiful tablet, so fittingly placed in honor of him,
  whose name in this hour fills all our hearts, the veil has just fallen
  in your sight. I do not envy that American who, at such a time as
  this, does not feel his heart swell with patriotic pride at the
  thought of what this graven monument means to us and ours.

  “A thousand recollections sparkle in the chambers of memory as we
  recall the chivalry, the worth, the dauntless courage and self-denying
  loyalty of him whose heart, stilled in its own earthly tenement for
  more than a hundred years, yet lives and throbs and pulses in the
  hearts of every lover of his land and of human liberty the wide world
  around; and, although appreciating to the fullest extent all that your
  Mayor has so well said and the Chairman so ably suggested of the
  beauty of this memorial, I may be pardoned for saying that no work of
  art, no accomplishment of high design, no costly metal, no skilful
  chiseling, no beautiful moulding, can make a memorial worthy of such a
  man as was Major General John Sullivan.

  “For when I think of what he was and what he did, when there rises to
  my sight the sacrifice and effort, the combat and the stern endurance,
  the privation and the grief, the sorrow and the pain, which marked his
  labor and his life throughout the years which spanned the rise of
  freedom, yea, the hope of men upon this continent, I feel sure that
  pen may not write, voice may not sound, nor can the chisel of art
  produce token worthy of his high deserving.

  “I would that the task of voicing our sentiments upon this occasion,
  the impressions of this hour, had fallen to other and to abler hands
  than mine. I wish that some peerless orator, born of that great race
  from which he sprang, might tell us here whence came the greatness,
  the nobility, the grace and loveliness which were so gloriously his,
  and, in telling that, might teach our children how he came to that
  high state of manly quality which all the world now knows was his.

  “But, friends of this great Society, whose well-bent efforts have done
  so much to give deserving heroes the credit which was rightly theirs,
  I know you will not let the awakened and quickening memories of this
  great soul for one moment hesitate in their progress toward wider and
  better appreciation.

  “I know that my own shortcomings will be more than complemented by
  your larger opportunity of bringing within the circle of his admirers
  every patriotic citizen of this Republic. Nay, more, I hope the day
  will come when every State House in the land shall hold a tablet such
  as this, when every schoolboy shall read lessons from his life, when
  every human being who seeks partnership and title in the freedom of
  his kind shall, in his memory, cherish the name of Major General John
  Sullivan as one who deserves a niche unshadowed and a fame unscarred
  among the scanty array of those great souls whom the genius of Liberty
  proudly calls her own.

  “This is not the fulsome word of hyperbole; it is not the sounding
  tinkle of rhetoric or idle eulogy. It is the measured testimony of
  those who have read aright the history of the great struggle for
  Independence, and have found therein no light or shadow in which the
  great soul of Major General Sullivan did not sparkle with the luster
  of a flawless diamond. And in this hour, beneath the lofty dome
  henceforth to shadow this memorial, in this free atmosphere which
  seems even now to echo with the guns he fired against his country’s
  foes, in this bright light, not purer than the soul he wore upon his
  sleeve, let us trace out a few of those strands of character which
  made him what he was, and, in our speaking, draw some inspiration from
  a few of the many debts which Liberty and our common country owe to
  him.

  “Ah, my friends, the account is long. We find him early trained as a
  lawyer, and at the age of 32 Major of the New Hampshire Regiment; in
  the spring of 1774, a member of the Provincial Assembly of New
  Hampshire; in September of the same year and in 1775, a delegate to
  the Continental Congress, by which he was in June, 1775, appointed a
  Brigadier-General, and in 1776 a Major-General.

  “Yet even while he was, at 34, only a New Hampshire Major, he had
  accomplished perhaps the most daring personal feat of the Revolution
  in the seizure of the powder and arms at Fort William and Mary in
  Portsmouth Harbor. Do you realize what that meant? Little more than a
  boy, anticipating, as he always anticipated, troubles to come, he
  dealt a crushing blow to the greatest power on earth, a boy with a
  dozen companions, and he sounded in that one daring act the keynote of
  that grand chorus of Liberty whose majestic final chords were heard in
  the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown.

  “I challenge the world to find a busier or more useful life than his
  for the five years from 1774 to 1779. No wonder, my friends, that no
  memorial can do justice to this. We find him on Winter’s Hill at the
  siege of Boston, working with all the energy of a vigorous manhood and
  high purpose; again at Portsmouth to advise and assist in warding off
  a menaced attack from the British fleet; thence hastily ordered to New
  York to aid General Putnam with a powerful detachment.

  “The pressing needs of the imperiled American army in Canada caused
  General Washington, in the spring of 1776, to hurry him off with six
  regiments to join its Commander at the earliest possible moment. Do
  you realize, my friends, what a journey to Canada with six regiments—a
  hasty journey—meant in those days? Yet Sullivan was there, only to see
  the death of the Commander whom he had been ordered to assist, from a
  malignant attack of smallpox; and himself suddenly succeeded to the
  place of Chief Commander of the entire expedition.

  “Nothing could exceed the vigor and discretion of his work as
  Commander of this most difficult expedition. Washington wrote of him
  at this time—and I love to quote of this man who has always been my
  historical ideal the words of the greatest mind in war and peace this
  country has ever known—Washington wrote of him at this time: ‘He is
  active, spirited and zealously attached to the cause. His wants are
  common to us all. He wants experience to move upon a grand scale, for
  the limited and contracted knowledge which any of us have in military
  matters stands in very little stead.’

  “But Washington’s most competent biographer, Washington Irving,
  declares with emphasis and truth: ‘This want was overbalanced on the
  part of General Sullivan by sound judgment, some acquaintance with men
  and books, and an enterprising genius.’

  “It is a source of profound regret to the thoughtful student of
  American history that General Sullivan was not left in charge to work
  out the problem of the Canadian expedition. True, he was only
  thirty-six years of age and had had but limited experience, but his
  successful combinations of a few years later leave it more than
  possible that, with him as a leader, the whole of Canada might have
  been added to the United States even at that early day, and the
  Revolution there terminated in half the time it finally lasted.

  “This was not destined so to be, for Congress somewhat hastily decided
  to commit the command of the Northern army to the much older but, as
  many of us now believe, far less competent hands of General Gates. I
  should not do justice to General Sullivan’s character if I did not
  concede that this replacement caused him some hurt, and I might say
  grief, but his magnanimous and instant efforts in the very moment of
  his return from Canada to serve his country by taking up as temporary
  Commander the perilous work on Long Island which General Greene had
  been compelled by illness to lay down, showed the soldier, the
  gentleman and patriot as no less trying circumstances could.

  “In the midst of the carnage of the disastrous battle of Long Island,
  Sullivan was taken prisoner. At once paroled and soon after exchanged,
  we find him in December, 1776, hastening to join General Washington.

  “Let me now turn from the track of this all too historical resumé to
  call your attention to the fact that, when Lord Howe paroled General
  Sullivan, desirous then of accelerating and possibly terminating the
  Rebellion without severance with the colonies, he selected John
  Sullivan as the honored representative of the British Government to
  convey his message to George Washington, and General Sullivan, under
  his own parole, brought from Lord Howe to George Washington the
  propositions which Lord Howe felt he could entrust to no more worthy
  hands than those of this man who was the absolute and the untiring
  enemy of Great Britain. That is a testimonial to General Sullivan
  whose place no monument can take.

  “In December, 1776, he hastened to join General Washington. On the
  morning of the attack of Trenton, after a night of storm and cold so
  bitter that some of his men were frozen to death and many of his guns
  were rendered wet and useless, he reported to Washington the defective
  condition of his muskets, as was his duty, but was ordered to advance
  and charge, which he did with so much effect that his regiment was
  really the first in action at the lower end of the town.

  “Next we find him, September 11th, 1777, on the disastrous but
  glorious field of Brandywine, every duty discharged with promptness,
  cool courage and sound discretion and judgment, and even in the
  closing hours of that struggle his was the foremost figure in the
  desperate center of the fray.

  “Brandywine and its disappointing finish was scarcely over before the
  conflict at Germantown involved him with his division in another
  desperate struggle, where an unfortunate and needless delay by General
  Knox and the sudden rising of a dense and impenetrable fog snatched
  from his hands a victory earned and well earned by every exhibition of
  soldierly quality a commander could give. And even in the hour of
  keenest personal disappointment, balked of a victory he had richly
  earned, a victory which would have set his name ringing around the
  world as its chief author and cause, his thoughts were not of himself,
  but of the personal danger to Washington to whom he gave the lifelong
  devotion which only lives in the breasts of noble men.

  “Without a pang or plaint of his own peril and disappointment, he
  writes: ‘I saw with great concern our brave Commander-inChief exposing
  himself to the hottest fire of the enemy in such a manner that regard
  for my country obliged me to ride to him and beg him to retire.’ And
  in the longer account of which these words are a part, my friends, not
  a suggestion can be found or guessed of the added peril which the
  writer himself freely braved in the efforts to remove his Chief from
  danger.

  “This hasty and inadequate resumé of his service in the first two
  years of the Revolution brings us to the great military operation of
  which he was the chief and on which will always rest much of his
  fame—the investment of Rhode Island and the series of movements of
  which the State and coast of Rhode Island formed the picturesque
  theater.

  “The enterprise was a favorite one with Washington, who hoped, indeed,
  that it would emphasize the French alliance at the outset by an
  overwhelming and successful effect of an attack on the British army
  almost within the sound of our voices. Its success was very dear to
  Washington’s heart, and for it he chose three officers perhaps more
  closely in his confidence and affection than any others in the
  Revolutionary Army. Sullivan was in chief command, with Greene and
  Lafayette as equal subordinate assistants, each having a division
  comprising as nearly as possible half of the army.

  “The plan of operations had been agreed upon between Washington and
  the French Commander, and the conflict was laid out to be, as it
  should have been, the first great effort of the allied French and
  American forces against the British army of invasion.

  “I am speaking to an audience whose youngest members should and
  probably do know more of the details of these military movements than
  I can ever hope to know.

  “From first to last, down to the finest particular of necessary
  prevision, General Sullivan was more than ready. All that a commander
  could do to insure success, he had accomplished so well that the only
  criticism made of his actions was that he had seized the British works
  opposite the north end of the island one day ahead of time. At this,
  the French General who had expected a joint attack to be made the next
  day professed to believe his notions of military etiquette had been
  shocked, but, as no harm resulted and a distinct gain in time had been
  effected, he had small foundation for his complaint, which was soon
  practically abandoned.

  “There had been an excellent opportunity to make the joint undertaking
  a magnificent success. If, as is now apparent, the attack had been
  made in the latter part of July as it might easily have been in view
  of Sullivan’s perfect preparations and the presence of the French
  fleet, it is probable that the war would have reached a complete and
  glorious close almost within sight of the ground upon which we stand
  today. Postponed as it was from day to day until August 10th, the
  British were given time to reinforce their fleet, hasten it to
  Newport, and there engage the French fleet in dilatory manœuvering
  which used up days of precious time and completely dissipated all hope
  of substantial assistance from the French warships. The expected, or
  that which should have been expected by the naval commanders, soon
  happened; many of us who have spent much time around here would have
  expected it to happen.

  “About the twentieth of August, one of those storms for which the
  region of Point Judith is famous, set in with almost unexampled fury.
  Land and water forces were alike put out of condition for offensive or
  defensive operations. The French fleet limped away to Boston to refit,
  and Sullivan, deeply chagrined at the utter failure of his naval
  auxiliaries to render any assistance, set to work to protect his army
  and extricate it from a position made perilous by the departure of its
  entire marine support and the consequent desertion of most of his
  militia.

  “The story of his great achievement in retiring his entire force in
  the face of a vastly superior English army, of the masterly retreat
  covered by his most skilfully selected position at Butts Hill, as I
  believe it is called—as to its proper name, I shall not attempt to
  correct a Rhode Island audience—a retreat effected finally so
  completely that not a man was left behind and not a single article
  lost, while, in the course of that retreat, signal and marked
  punishment was inflicted upon the British army, will ever read like a
  romance of model leadership, and, if General John Sullivan had no
  other memory, my friends, than of what he did within a radius of sixty
  miles of this Capitol, his fame could be no less great and no less
  enduring than it is, and, what is more, would be richly deserved.

  “Thus briefly, as becomes my scanty time, I have sketched the work of
  John Sullivan to the close of 1778. I have not made the motive of my
  story clear if it has not already appeared that this man was greater
  in the hour of undeserved disappointment than most men in the
  exaltation of victory. Again and again, the fruits of deserved and
  brilliant success were held to his lips, only to be dashed away by the
  folly of the foibles of some weaker spirit necessarily entangled in
  his plans. Yet never for an instant did he yield to the despair and
  mortification which would have sunk less noble souls. Each
  disappointment seemed to but nerve him to stronger and more brilliant
  efforts. And herein, my friends, to my mind, is illustrated and should
  be made prominent one grand characteristic which we have taken from
  the noble Irish race. The patience under disappointment which Major
  General John Sullivan illustrates, the patience under disappointment
  which again and again was manifestly the fault of men to whom he never
  gave a word of rebuke or complaint, the steadfast iron determination
  with which he set to work instantly to repair the ruin that some,
  associated in common with him, had wrought, is the brightest leaf in
  the chaplet which America has put upon his grave.

  “It is an honor to belong to that grand old race, aye, even to hold
  one drop of Irish blood in your veins, but, good friends all, with or
  without it, I am proud to testify to what Irish friendship, Irish
  loyalty and the matchless Irish courage can do. No man ever knew as I
  have known what Irish friendship is, no man ever knew as I have known
  what Irish hospitality is, no man ever knew as I have known what Irish
  loyalty and patience is, without bowing in humble respect to it,
  whether he drew his blood from France or from Russia, from America or
  from England, each one of which owes Ireland a measureless debt. And
  all who love truth in history and gratitude for priceless gifts
  received, will urge your Society onward every day and hour you labor
  in the work you have so well begun till every heroic son of this great
  line who has helped to build the fabric of American liberty shall have
  his rightful place in history and the laurels he has fairly won.

  “I have now come to that which, in justice to Major General John
  Sullivan, I think should be related. I shall ask you to turn from the
  beautiful State in which you live to that far off region of beauty in
  which I have the honor to hold my home. In 1778 occurred in Wyoming
  that awful massacre whose horrors yet ring in the history of our
  country and in the hearts of the descendants of those who lost part of
  their families, who lost limb, who lost health, who were maimed, in
  that most horrible of savage invasions. Early in 1779 Congress,
  representing a country which had been shocked to the limit by those
  terrible outrages, passed a resolution of unlimited vigor, calling
  upon Washington to arrange for their punishment. It was suggested at
  first to Washington that General Gates should have the command, but
  Washington, whose knowledge of Indian warfare was complete, wanted
  General Sullivan, and to that officer was entrusted the conduct of
  that great fight.

  “In the history of Indian warfare in this country there is nothing
  more successful, more thoroughly creditable to the commanding officer,
  than the history of what General John Sullivan and his command did in
  the then wilderness reaching from Wyoming to the Genesee; and today,
  think of him what you may, build to him tablets as beautiful as this,
  recall his manifestly skilful work in the State where you stand, and
  you cannot accord to him one half the veneration and the love which
  the citizens of the counties around me, now a million in number, feel
  towards General John Sullivan for the work which opened up that
  magnificent line of valleys unequalled in their fertility, and whose
  line of bordering hills to this day, one hundred and thirty years
  after, is resounding with thanksgiving and praise for what General
  John Sullivan did there.

  “Every morning when I look out of my window in the far distance I can
  see in the battlefield which decided the ownership of that region a
  tall and stately monument built by private subscription to General
  Sullivan, to commemorate his work on that bloody day, and just below
  it stands a magnificent marker of granite, placed there by the Sons of
  the American Revolution to mark the very center of the conflict which
  took those valleys away from the possession of the Indians and turned
  them over to civilization and happy and peaceful occupation; and those
  who know the iron will and determined character of John Sullivan know,
  as we do, that when he got through with the Indians and their
  worthless white associates they had no more thirst for blood. Sullivan
  served notice on them and carried it out that if there was any more
  blood shed in that part of the country the Indians would furnish the
  blood.

  “So perhaps, in an humble way, I have alluded to that feature of
  Sullivans’ life—his closing campaign, which identifies him with
  Northern Pennsylvania and Central New York.

  “With the close of the campaign of 1779, which may be said to have
  terminated his military career, General Sullivan resigned his
  commission and retired from the army. The constant strain of five
  years almost constantly in active and perilous service had wrecked a
  constitution never of the strongest, and he felt he had given all of
  his life and strength to the cause of Independence.

  “His resignation was accepted with profound regret, although it was
  universally felt that the reasons for his retirement were imperative.
  Although he lived for fifteen years after his resignation, his health
  was not robust and he died in 1795 at the early age of fifty-four,
  universally admired and lamented. He had, however, no sooner left the
  army than his brilliant legal and forensic talent was seized upon, for
  such services to the country as his health would permit, in the
  legislative halls of the nation, the executive chair of his own State,
  and later upon the Federal Bench.

  “In 1780–1781 he was a delegate to Congress. In 1782 he was appointed
  the Attorney-General of New Hampshire and was re-appointed to that
  office on the adoption of the new constitution of that State in 1784.

  “In 1786–1787 he was President and Chief Magistrate of the State of
  New Hampshire, an office equivalent to that of Governor at the present
  time.

  “In 1788 he was speaker of the House of Representatives of New
  Hampshire and President of the Convention that ratified the
  Constitution of the United States.

  “In 1789 he was a presidential elector and voted for General
  Washington for President of the United States, and in March of the
  same year he was elected Chief Magistrate of the State for the third
  time.

  “Later in 1789 he was appointed by Washington, his affectionate friend
  and admirer during his whole life, as Judge of the United States
  District Court of New Hampshire, an office which he held with honor to
  himself and the Judiciary until his death in January, 1795.

  “I have thus briefly sketched the outline of a life which deserves an
  autobiography perfect in every detail and of the highest grade.
  History shows this man in more varied and brilliant lines than almost
  any character in Revolutionary annals. Consider him, my friends, as a
  young lawyer, prompt, keen, resourceful and competent, and you have a
  model of early professional life. Mark him as an active officer of the
  line, reckless of danger, ready to dare all that could be dared,
  willing to do all that he had dared. Mark him again as a commanding
  general, reliable, faithful, prudent and dauntless, unswerved by
  passion, unstained by chagrin, unmarred by envy and uninfluenced by
  clamor, steady and well-poised in the hour of peril or in a moment of
  undeserved injustice. Consider him again, my friends, when after years
  of fierce combat he is chosen for the command of such an expedition as
  I have indicated, which needs great skill in combination and with such
  resources in provision for the needs of a frontier army that his
  success seems impossible.

[Illustration:

  HON. THOMAS H. CARTER.

  United States Senator from Montana.

  One of the Founders of the Society.
]

  “And here let me digest for a moment words which, in my own hearing,
  fell from the lips of the distinguished General Slocum, speaking of
  General Sullivan’s great Indian campaign in the presence of General
  Sherman thirty years ago on the one hundreth anniversary of the same.
  General Slocum said:

  “‘As I have sat listening to the speeches today, I have drawn a
  parallel between those two expeditions. Sherman’s march was the longer
  of the two, but, in many respects, he had greater advantages. While he
  had a great distance to travel he had roads made for him by the enemy;
  he had his produce brought by mule trains; while General Sullivan made
  his march through trackless woods and carried his provisions upon the
  backs of his soldiers. Sherman had good arms; General Sullivan had the
  old flintlock musket. But after all, the spirit which prompted both
  expeditions was the same. It was bold and daring, and, although there
  was no great loss of life in either, yet the results of both were far
  greater than many battles in which lives by the thousand and tens of
  thousands were lost.’

  “And on the same occasion—it is my excuse for quotations, my friends,
  that I want you to hear these words from two of the greatest Generals
  we have ever known—on the same occasion, remembering then, as we
  remember today, how unjustly General Sullivan was at one time
  criticised for the harshness of his treatment of the Indians on the
  Susquehanna expedition, remembering, too, that he suffered these
  criticisms in silence rather than to lay the blame upon his beloved
  Chief, Washington, who had given him the orders which were condemned,
  I quote from the words of General Sherman, spoken also in my hearing
  on the same occasion:


    “‘Our fathers, when they first landed upon this continent, came to
    found an empire, based upon new principles, and all opposition to it
    had to pass away, whether it were English or French on the north, or
    Indians on the west; and no one knew it better than our father,
    Washington. He gave General Sullivan orders to come here and punish
    the Six Nations for their cruel massacre in the valley of Wyoming,
    and to make it so severe that it would not occur again. And he did
    so. General Sullivan obeyed his orders like a man and like a
    soldier, and the result was from that time forward your people
    settled up these beautiful valleys around here, and look at their
    descendants here, a million almost. If it had not been for General
    Sullivan and the men who followed him from Easton, and Clinton’s
    forces that came across from Albany, probably some of you would not
    have been here today.’

    “I still read: ‘Battles are not measured by their death roll, but by
    their results, and it makes no difference whether one man was killed
    or five hundred if the same result follows. This valley was opened
    to civilization. It came on the heels of General Sullivan’s army,
    and has gone on and gone on until today. The same battle is raging
    upon the Yellow Stone. The same men endowed by the same feelings
    that General Sullivan’s army had today are contending with the same
    causes and the same races two thousand miles west of here, not for
    the purpose of killing, not for the purpose of shedding blood, not
    for the purpose of doing wrong at all, but to prepare the way for
    that civilization which must go along wherever yonder flag floats.’


  “It might be thought perhaps, my friends, that this rehearsal of the
  opinions of General Sherman and General Slocum, two of the greatest
  military leaders of our country, might have been more properly used
  here than on the dedication of a tablet somewhat, in its scope as a
  memorial, limited to your own State, but it has been my purpose, my
  friends, to illustrate General Sullivan as one of the most admirable
  representatives of his race; and when I have set before you a parallel
  drawn in the presence of General Sherman himself between the
  difficulties and the success of Sullivan’s march from Wyoming to the
  Genesee and Sherman’s own march to the sea, and have given you the
  opinions of both General Sherman and General Slocum, I have
  illustrated my proposition that of all the debts which America owes to
  Ireland, God bless her, General John Sullivan, in his varied talents,
  in that which he accomplished, in every spot and place in which we put
  him, is entitled to rank with the noblest and purest contribution
  which we, in America, have from the grand old Irish race.

  “My friends, my words are in substance ended. I have detained you
  longer than I meant to, but they who live around me could have told
  you that you have only to mention the name and memory of Major-General
  John Sullivan to set going any thoughtful student of American history
  who lives in the magnificent valleys of the Susquehanna, the Wyoming,
  and the Genesee. What we owe to this man we can never repay.

  “I am proud and happy to have been allowed to participate in the
  unveiling of such a tribute as this. As I said at the outset, I hope
  the day will come when every State House in this land will have one,
  and yet, when I think of what he was and what we owe him, I feel that
  no monument can make him greater than he is in the affections of our
  people a hundred and thirty years after his death. And yet I am proud
  for our own sake, for the uplifting of our own people, that we have
  thus recognized that which we know of his worth. I might have spoken
  in his behalf with truth the words of the great Roman: ‘_Exegi
  monumentum aere perennius_’—‘I have builded a monument more enduring
  than brass.’”

  Former Governor Lippitt was the next speaker, introduced by the
  Chairman as follows: “One of our invited guests, representing the
  Society of the Cincinnati, is obliged to go to a neighboring city
  within the next hour to deliver an address, and we will not have the
  pleasure of his company at our luncheon or the benefit of any words
  from him afterwards. I will therefore introduce him at once.

  “As General Sullivan was one of the original members of the Society of
  the Cincinnati, it is singularly fitting that we call on an honored
  Rhode Islander, whose father as well as himself has served the state
  as Governor, and whose devotion to the history and affairs of the
  commonwealth has given him a well deserved position as an authority on
  his subject.

  “It gives me great pleasure to introduce Hon. Charles Warren Lippitt,
  ex-Governor of Rhode Island.”

  “Mr. Chairman, Members of the American Irish Historical Society,
  Ladies and Gentlemen: I feel surprised at finding myself somewhat
  unexpectedly in this position, but will try to aid in honoring this
  occasion.

  “Veneration for General Sullivan, for his services on the Island of
  Rhode Island, and for his noble victory, has always been mine. That he
  was of Irish extraction, and that his ancestors, like those of all the
  rest of us who are not descended from Indians, emigrated from a home
  land to this new country in the western hemisphere, is well known. My
  descent is from the English, with a strain of the French and the
  German races rather than from the Irish. No one in any way familiar
  with American history can hesitate an instant in according to the
  Hibernians the honor of many noble actions and the respect due to
  sacrifice of untold value, in every emergency of our common country.

  “General Sullivan came of a sturdy race. His father was born during
  the siege of Limerick, away back in 1691, of such good stock that he
  outlived the century and did not pass away until 1796, at the age of
  one hundred and five. It was his son that gave so much of his life and
  energy, his intelligence and ability, to the cause of American
  freedom. That he served with distinction in the Continental Army goes
  without question. That he was at Trenton the night before Christmas
  and aided in the defeat and capture of that hated Hessian contingent
  that had been marauding up and down New Jersey is also an established
  fact. It is equally true that with the three Rhode Island regiments,
  forming a material part of Washington’s army, he braved the elements
  in that historic night march from Trenton to Princeton, fought the
  next morning in the battle of Princeton, and successfully assisted in
  driving Cornwallis out of New Jersey. It was the crisis of the
  Revolution. In that time of stress and doubt John Sullivan, the
  descendant of an Irishman, like so many others of his race, stood
  shoulder to shoulder with the descendants of the English and the
  French in securing for us and the millions that have inhabited this
  land the priceless privileges of liberty.

  “His course in the Genesee Valley and the very proper punishment he
  administered to the savages who committed the horrible massacre at
  Wyoming has been eloquently traced. His campaign in Rhode Island has,
  perhaps, been studied in rather more detail in this neighborhood than
  in other parts of the country.

  “History records and practically every American schoolboy can tell how
  the Americans fought at the battle of Bunker Hill. Wherever the
  Revolution is known there is an intimate knowledge of that great
  conflict. We all of us glory in its story, and remember with gratitude
  and sympathy the bravery of those untrained patriots who administered
  such a fearful blow to British power and prestige.

  “Compare for a moment the battle on Rhode Island and the results
  secured by Sullivan’s generalship with the circumstances and the issue
  on that hill near Boston. The loss of the English at Bunker Hill was
  1,054 men, that of the Americans 449. Until the British entered the
  redoubt, the Americans fought behind entrenchments. In the third
  attack the British captured the redoubt, drove the Americans from the
  hill, and retained undisputed control of the battlefield.

  “In the campaign on Rhode Island the inability of the French to
  control the sea obliged the Americans to retire to Butts Hill. In the
  valley separating it from Quaker, Turkey and Anthony hills,
  immediately south, a battle was fought, not behind entrenchments, but
  in the broad open, where each army had equal advantages and success
  was won by brilliant tactics and skill and spirit in using weapons. In
  the retreat and in the battle between the nearby Rhode Island hills,
  the English lost 1,023 and the Americans 211. After repulsing two
  vigorously and pertinaciously pressed charges of the English army, the
  Americans were obliged in the early afternoon to face a last violent
  onset that almost broke the right wing of Sullivan’s army under the
  immediate command of General Greene. Jackson’s regiment connected with
  Colonel Livingston’s detachment, that had contested during the early
  morning the British advance up the island, after a needed rest on the
  north side of Butts hill were marched around the rear of the army, by
  Sullivan’s direction, to the extreme right of General Greene’s
  command. The British and Hessians charged down the slope of Anthony
  hill and were met in the valley by Greene’s somewhat exhausted forces.
  It was the final struggle for victory. At this critical moment Colonel
  Livingston led Jackson’s regiment, using the cold steel, in a fierce
  onslaught against the enemy’s flank that gave the British the final
  blow and sent them scurrying up the slope of Anthony hill to their
  entrenchments on the top. The Americans, closely following the flying
  foe, captured Brady’s battery as an evidence of their victory.

  “The Americans maintained absolute control of the battlefield. Colonel
  Campbell of the Twenty-Second British Regiment sent to General
  Sullivan the day after the battle and asked permission to search among
  the dead for the body of his nephew, who had been killed the day
  before by his side, but whose body he could not remove they were so
  closely pursued.

  “The Battle of Rhode Island was a gratifying success for the
  Americans. Victory was due to the skill, the intelligence, the courage
  and the audacity of General Sullivan, and to his brave officers and
  men. Lafayette characterized it as ‘the best fought action of the
  war,’ and the statement accords the highest compliment to the military
  skill of General John Sullivan.

  “It is a great pleasure to participate with so many friends in
  expressing our high appreciation of the services of Sullivan that have
  been so adequately and happily recognized by the American Irish
  Historical Society. It is an intense gratification to contemplate the
  success of these ceremonies and to sincerely join in congratulation
  and in commendation of efforts that have resulted in adorning this
  noble State House with this beautiful, substantial and enduring tablet
  to our heroic dead.”

  President-General Quinlan of the Society was then introduced by the
  Chairman, as follows: “I have the pleasure now to call upon the
  President-General of the American Irish Historical Society, under
  whose careful and enthusiastic administration it has been possible to
  erect and dedicate this tablet. There never has been a time when his
  efforts, his energy, and all his powers were not at our disposal.
  There never has been a time when we have called on him for anything
  since the memorial has been under way that he has not promptly and
  vigorously responded. I have the great honor of introducing to you,
  ladies and gentlemen, our President-General, Francis J. Quinlan, M.
  D., L. L. D., of New York City.”


President-General Quinlan said:


  “Mr. Chairman, your Excellency, Mr. Mayor, Ladies and Gentlemen:
  Before I attempt to say a few words in honor of the auspicious event
  of this day, I will take occasion to render the tribute of my personal
  thanks and of the collective thanks of our Society to the
  distinguished assemblage gathered here to do honor to our illustrious
  hero by the loyal support of their presence.

  “I take occasion, first of all, to thank the Ex-Governors, the present
  Governor, the Governor-elect, and the Department of the G. A. R., an
  association that to me is representative of the rarest and choicest
  texture of the loom of American Independence. (I would rather wear
  their button than be decorated by one hundred kings.) To those who
  represent the Society of Colonial Wars I extend my heartfelt thanks
  for their presence. To the Daughters of the American Revolution and to
  the distinguished Sons, as well as to the Sons of Veterans and also
  the illustrious Society whose early achievements in this country need
  no word of commendation from me,—the Society of the Cincinnati,—to
  them and to their representatives I extend my thanks and my greetings.
  To the Rhode Island Citizens’ Historical Association I also offer
  welcome. To those who are associated with none, but whose attendance
  is due to their interest in these exercises, I am thankful for their
  presence here today.

  “Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the stirring notes of
  welcome that have rung out in this beautiful building, the tributes
  that have been paid by those gentlemen, one of them with a line of
  nine generations of pure and unsullied English blood. What further
  tribute do we need, what other ratification or emphasis do we require
  than that which comes from one whose nation held us in subjugation,
  with its heel of tyranny upon our neck, for seven hundred years, when
  this offspring, eager to forget past enmities, frankly tells us in
  tones of eloquence that the Irish have been and always will remain
  loyal and true and constant and devoted to every cause they espouse!
  We need but little further argument to justify our existence, but it
  behooves me, on an occasion of this kind, not apologetically, but in
  bold words, to explain the purpose of the American Irish Historical
  Society.

  “It has been truly said by the Chairman of this meeting that this
  Society was born in the City of Boston in the year 1897, for the study
  of American history generally, as well as to trace the immigration of
  the people of Ireland to this country, to correct erroneous and
  distorted views of history in relation to the Irish people in America,
  and to encourage and promote the formation of local associations in
  American cities and towns as aids in the work of the parent Society.
  These purposes have been so enlarged upon by the Chairman that they
  need no word of encouragement from me.

  “You know that the tide of immigration turned to this country in the
  last century. Irish people haven’t always been immigrants. Nine
  hundred years before Columbus set sail from Palos, Spain, a bishop of
  the old faith named Brendan left his home in Galway, sailed over the
  sea, visited Iceland and Greenland, and there are today evidences of
  this man’s presence in Delaware and Virginia—nine hundred years before
  Columbus set foot on this continent. Even in the very crew which made
  up the contingent in Columbus’ navy which manned the three ships there
  was one to whom, when Columbus left, he gave the custody of one of
  those ships, and this man’s record proves he was an Irishman, William
  Ayer of Galway. We have historical facts; they cannot be gainsaid;
  they stand out in bas-relief today; the story is plain and intelligent
  men accept it.

  “Immigration! Do you know that as the years have gone by they have
  witnessed immigration from many lands? Germany has furnished us with
  some of the best bone and sinew of its country. England, through her
  unwise laws, through her erring principles of justice, exacted from
  the Irish people something that they would not give—taxation without
  representation, and surrender of civic and religious liberty. Deprived
  of everything that men in common hold dear, deprived of education, of
  religious worship, they were driven from the shores of Ireland and
  found the arms of Columbia extended and ready to receive them as
  children. We came here, and we thank England for sending us here. If
  it hadn’t been for the conditions of a hundred and fifty years ago, we
  might be toiling there today. It is a wise Providence that directs and
  overrules conditions. We came, and this asylum was beautiful, the flag
  of freedom and union waved for us, everything was lovely compared with
  what we had left behind. Friends and kindred, religion and society
  grew up within our own experiences. The warm heart of the Irishman
  broadened; he grew, and when the country rang out the alarm, when the
  country announced that it was menaced with danger, in that Irish boy’s
  ears rang the traditions and the wrongs of ages. He buckled on his
  belt; he took down the flintlock from the wall; he marched forward
  anywhere, everywhere, under the command of Washington and
  Sullivan,—Washington, the ideal, and Sullivan, the son of an Irish
  exile. These were the traits exhibited.

  “‘Theirs not to reason why—not to make reply—but to do and die.’ These
  men made it possible for you and for me to live to enjoy the
  conditions of today, to be here in this temple of local pride.

  “I am reminded of the story so beautifully told in Roman history of
  the mother who once paid a visit to a wealthy matron of that glorious
  republic so many centuries ago. After dinner the matron said, ‘Now I
  must show you my beautiful jewels.’ They were carefully guarded, but
  she displayed them to the eyes of her visitor, and then remarked, ‘You
  must show me your jewels when I go to your house.’ In turn she called
  upon the mother, and stayed a little longer than is usual, awaiting
  the exhibition of jewels. Finally she inquired, ‘Have you forgotten to
  show me your jewels?’ ‘Oh, no,’ the mother replied. ‘Come this way,’
  and as she threw open a door five beautiful children were revealed.
  ‘These,’ she exclaimed, ‘are my jewels.’

  “People of Rhode Island, these noble patriots and these scarred flags
  are your sacred jewels. Guard their memory, defend it, and, as your
  blood has the rich central vein of patriotism, so sacrifice all you
  have to keep these jewels sacredly enshrined in your hearts forever.

  “I would that Sullivan could get a day’s leave from his sacred parole.
  I would that he could come back to us today, that he might obtain from
  the St. Gabriel of St. Peter’s Gate a day’s leave of absence to look
  at these pillars and to gaze about these corridors. We almost hear the
  whisper, can almost note the footfall of a strange presence here. It
  is the spirit of the Revolutionary hero that communes with us; it is
  the lofty emotion that emanates from him, though unseen, and which
  commends our spirit of patriotism and ratifies our act, not to him
  individually but to the noble band of which he was Captain.

  “This is a great day for Rhode Island. This is a great day for
  America, because this afternoon and tomorrow the wave of thought that
  is ours will extend beyond us and be carried everywhere to receptive
  minds. The sunlight will dash it into every possible nook and corner
  of the land; the rivers will take it down to the Mexican slope; the
  whole country will vibrate with it. You who know the history of the
  man we honor, cherish it in your memory, and when you recall these
  exercises, congratulate yourself that in assisting at them you have
  fulfilled a duty; one and all, you have paid the homage of a great and
  noble State.

  “One moment more, my friends. I have tarried long. This page stands
  out alone in the history of this Society of which I have the honor and
  rare privilege of being the Executive. Ladies and gentlemen, that
  Society has one purpose; that purpose is written between the lines of
  today’s event. We want to know the men who have lived, who have
  fought, who have bled, who have given everything to the cause of the
  American people. We want to record their deeds in order that the womb
  of the future may bring forth a race, generations distant from us,
  that will stand up and say, ‘I, too, am Irish, although I have six
  generations separating me from that blood,’ a race that will cherish
  everything Irish and will extend the open hand of welcome to everyone
  who bears the hall mark of Ireland, whether his religion be Catholic
  or Protestant.

  “We are broad, we are honest, we are liberal. We want to attack no
  man, but when we peruse the pages of American history, when we turn
  over volume after volume, chapter after chapter, page after page, and
  search paragraph after paragraph, line after line, syllable after
  syllable, and see no recognition of the services of Irishmen, our
  hearts bleed because the omission is culpable and not due to the fact
  that the historian could find no achievements to make good his lines.

  “We claim our place in this Republic. We have sacrificed everything in
  the world for it. We would go further tomorrow and pledge every
  security, sever ourselves from home, to protect our freedom and these
  flags. The United States is ours, whether on the shores of California,
  Maine, Texas, or Washington. There is one freedom, one brotherhood of
  man.

  “I could detain you longer, friends, but the time allotted me forbids.
  I have lingered longer than I should, but I know of no sentiment with
  which I might more fittingly conclude than that of one of your great
  New England worthies, the man who is enshrined in the sanctuary of
  your hearts, John Boyle O’Reilly. He says, in his own peculiar but
  grand way:

  “‘No treason we bring from Erin, nor bring we shame nor guilt!
  The sword we hold may be broken, but we have not dropped the hilt.
  The wreath we bear to Columbia is twisted to thorns, not bays;
  And the songs we sing are saddened by thoughts of desolate days.
  But the hearts we bring for freedom are washed in the surge of tears;
  And we claim our right by a people’s fight outliving a thousand
     years.’”


At the conclusion of Doctor Quinlan’s address the Chairman declared the
ceremonies of dedication over, thanking all those present for their
attendance.


The several organizations were represented at the dedication as follows:
Society of the Cincinnati, Ex-Governor Charles Warren Lippitt,
Ex-Governor George H. Utter, Hon. William Page Sheffield, Edward Aborn
Greene, George Humphrey, Thomas A. Peirce, Rev. Daniel Goodwin; Society
of Colonial Wars, Henry B. Rose, Gen. Hunter C. White, Hon. John T.
Blodgett, Prof. Wilfred H. Munro, E. A. Burlingame and George C.
Nightingale; Daughters of the American Revolution, Miss Mary A. Greene,
Mrs. Charles Warren Lippitt; Rhode Island Citizens’ Historical
Association, T. W. Bicknell, H. A. Atkins, A. L. Anthony, Ellen R.
Jolly, Caroline A. Weeden, Mrs. Lyons Delaney, B. L. Dennis, Francis
Gallagher, Elizabeth Doyle, J. H. Foster, John R. Richmond, Elizabeth
Halton, C. H. Eddy and Mrs. R. B. P. Tingley; Rhode Island Historical
Society, Professor Munro, Amasa M. Eaton, Robert P. Brown and Clarence
S. Brigham. Among others present were: Dr. Francis J. Quinlan of New
York, D. H. Tierney of Waterbury, Conn., John J. Linehan, Worcester,
Bernard J. Joyce of Boston, Michael J. Jordan of Boston, Edmund O’Keefe
of New Bedford, John F. Hurley, Mayor, of Salem, Mass., Patrick H.
Powers of Boston, John Morgan of New York, Augustin H. Morgan of New
York, P. F. Magrath of Binghamton, N. Y., T. B. Fitzpatrick of
Brookline, Mass., Michael F. Dooley, Frederick Roy Martin, Dr. James E.
Sullivan, Col. James H. McGann, Col. James C. Moran, Michael W. Norton,
John F. O’Connell, Patrick Carter, M. S. Dwyer, John McManus, Barnard
McCaughey, William L. Wood, both of Pawtucket; Gen. Charles R. Brayton,
Col. Frank T. Sibley, Mrs. Chadwick, wife of Admiral F. E. Chadwick;
Mrs. James Chadwick, James C. Collins, Gen. Elisha H. Rhodes, T. M.
O’Reilly, Frederick H. Jackson, Rev. Austin Dowling, Col. J. Edward
Studley, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Chandler, Mary A. Darling, Benjamin L.
Dennis, General Treasurer Walter A. Read, Secretary of States Charles P.
Bennett, Attorney-General William B. Greenough, Mayor-elect Henry
Fletcher, Judge Elmer J. Rathbun, John Dunn, Secretary of the State
Board of Agriculture; Hugh J. Carroll, Mr. and Mrs. Albert G. Chaffee,
John F. McAlevy, Thomas E. Maloney, V. S., Fall River; Benjamin L.
Dennis, Mrs. Doyle, William J. Feeley, Walter H. Barney, Dr. M. H.
Sullivan of Lawrence, Mass., Dr. Michael F. Kelly of Fall River and
Frank Carter.




                        POST-PRANDIAL EXERCISES.


At the termination of the exercises at the State House the Society and
its guests proceeded to the Narragansett Hotel for luncheon. Chairman
Lee acted as toastmaster, and speeches of an appropriate nature were
made by the following: Gen. Charles R. Brayton, representing the
National Encampment, G. A. R.; Hon. John F. O’Connell; Prof. Wilfred H.
Munro of Brown University, President of the Rhode Island Historical
Society; Hon. Walter H. Barney, representing the Rhode Island Bar; Judge
Livingston Scott, whose wife is a direct descendant of General Sullivan;
Hon. Thomas Williams Bicknell, President of the Rhode Island Citizens’
Historical Association; Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, President of the Ladies’
Auxiliary, A. O. H.; Gen. Elisha H. Rhodes, representing the Rhode
Island G. A. R. and the Military Order of the Loyal Legion; Hon. John H.
Hurley, Mayor of Salem, Mass.; and John G. Hardy, the sculptor who
designed and executed the memorial.

Judge Scott during his address read the following original letter to
Gen. Sullivan from President Washington:


                                                      “Sept. 30th, 1789.

  “SIR: I have the pleasure to enclose to you a commission as Judge of
  the United States for the District of New Hampshire, to which office I
  have nominated, and by and with advice and consent of the Senate,
  appoint you. In my nomination of persons to fill office in the
  Judicial Department, I have been guided by the importance of the
  object, considering it of the first magnitude and the pillar upon
  which our political fabric must rest.

  “I have endeavored to bring into the high offices of its
  administration such characters as will give stability and dignity to
  our national Government; and I persuade myself that they will discover
  a due desire to promote the happiness of our Country by a ready
  acceptance of their several appointments. The laws which have passed
  relative to your office accompany the Commission.

               “I am Sir with very great esteem
                           “Your most obedient servant,
                                       “GEORGE WASHINGTON.”


The Committee having in charge the erection and dedication of the
memorial were: Thomas Zanslaur Lee, Chairman; Patrick J. McCarthy,
Secretary; Michael F. Dooley, Treasurer; Patrick Carter, James E.
Sullivan, William P. Dempsey, James Murphy, Francis I. McCanna, William
J. Feeley, Bernard McCaughey, Patrick E. Hayes, John McManus, James
Moran, John F. O’Connell, James H. McGann, Rev. Austin Dowling, James H.
Hurley, John F. McAlevy, James T. Egan.

The entire proceedings at the dedication were reported verbatim by Miss
Viola Follis, the official stenographer for the Society, and hence we
are able to print the excellent orations in full.


                             SPECIAL MEETING.

  At the conclusion of the post-prandial exercises a special meeting of
  the Society was held at headquarters, President-General Quinlan
  presiding.

  A vote of thanks was tendered Col. David C. Robinson for his efficient
  services in behalf of the Society.

  It was voted that the thanks of the Society be extended Mr. Michael W.
  Norton for the use of his automobiles and carriages to transport
  members and guests to and from the State House, and in special
  recognition of Mr. Norton’s kindness the President-General appointed
  him chairman of the Reception Committee to be on duty at the White
  House at Washington January 16, 1909, when President Roosevelt gives a
  reception to the Society.

  The acting Secretary-General was directed to extend Colonel Robinson
  the Society’s invitation to be its guest at the Annual Dinner and
  President Roosevelt’s reception at Washington.

                                         THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
                                             _Acting Secretary-General_.

  PROVIDENCE, R. I., December 16, 1908.


Following is the circular letter which was sent to members of the
Society, informing them of the plans for the dedicatory exercises:

      “To make better known the Irish Chapter in American History.”

                  THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

 (Founded 1897. First President-General, Rear Admiral R. W. Meade, U. S.
                                   N.)


                     OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL.

                          49 Westminster Street.

                                    PROVIDENCE, R. I., December 8, 1908.

The committee of the American Irish Historical Society having in charge
the erection and dedication of the Major-General John Sullivan Memorial
in Rhode Island beg to announce that the dedication will take place in
the Rhode Island State House, Wednesday, December 16, 1908, at twelve
o’clock noon.

The principal address will be delivered by Colonel David C. Robinson,
through whose efforts an appropriation of ten thousand dollars for a
monument to General Sullivan in the State of New York was obtained, and
whose knowledge of historical events of the Revolutionary War is most
extensive.

Delegations will be in attendance from the following organizations:
Rhode Island Historical Society, Rhode Island Division Sons of Veterans,
Daughters of the American Revolution, Society of the Colonial Wars,
Society of the Cincinnati, and Rhode Island Citizens Historical
Association.

Invitations have been extended to the Department Commander and Staff of
the G. A. R., General Tanner and staff of the Rhode Island National
Guard, Hon. James H. Higgins, Governor of Rhode Island, Hon. Aram J.
Pothier, Governor-elect of Rhode Island, and other State officers.

The Society’s headquarters will be at the Narragansett Hotel, where
proper provision will be made for the reception and entertainment of
members and guests during the day.

Shortly before twelve o’clock, the hour of dedication, the Society and
guests will go in a body to the State House, a short distance from the
hotel, where provision has been made for ample and comfortable seating
of all. After the exercises, which are planned to last probably an hour
and half, we will return to the Narragansett Hotel, where luncheon will
be served, at which there will be several interesting addresses. Price
of tickets, $1.50, which may be obtained from the Secretary-General or
the Entertainment Committee.

This is an affair of great importance to the American Irish Historical
Society, and we earnestly hope every member will be present.

Send back enclosed postal if you intend to be present so we will know
how many to provide for.

                           COMMITTEE ON THE SULLIVAN MEMORIAL
                               OF THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

                                           THOMAS Z. LEE,
                                                       _Chairman_.

                                           PATRICK J. McCARTHY,
                                                       _Secretary_.




    RECORDS OF THE ANNUAL MEETING AND BANQUET OF THE AMERICAN IRISH
 HISTORICAL SOCIETY AT WASHINGTON, D. C., JANUARY 16, 1909, AND OF THE
    RECEPTION TO THE SOCIETY BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.


It having been voted at the annual meeting at New York January 29, 1908,
to hold the next annual meeting at Washington, D. C.; the Executive
Council at a well-attended meeting thereof held at the residence of the
President-General, December 5, 1908, considered the necessary
arrangements, and resolved to make this event a notable one in the
Society’s history. A committee previously appointed by the
President-General to confer with Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, President of
the United States, and ascertain his pleasure as to a reception to the
Society and attendance later at the dinner, reported that owing to
pressure of official business President Roosevelt would be unable to
attend the Society’s dinner, but would be pleased to meet his
fellow-members at the White House and there make a short address.

In accordance with the instruction of the Executive Council the
Secretary-General opened correspondence with Mr. William Loeb, Jr.,
Secretary to President Roosevelt, and the details of the reception were
promptly arranged.

President-General Quinlan thereupon appointed a Reception Committee to
officiate at the White House and afterwards be on duty at the Society’s
headquarters in Washington, and a Dinner Committee to arrange all the
details of the annual banquet.

The appointees on these committees appear in the circular letter which
follows.

The Dinner Committee carefully looked over the available places in
Washington suitable for the annual banquet, and decided upon the Hotel
Raleigh as most desirable, not only for this purpose but also for the
headquarters of the Society.

Mr. Thomas J. Talty, the manager of the Hotel Raleigh, extended the
Committee every courtesy and made their work in the Society’s behalf
easy and pleasant.

[Illustration:

  HON. EDWARD J. MCGUIRE. LL. B.,

  New York City.

  Member of the Executive Council.
]

As soon as all necessary details were completed, the following circular
letter to members was issued:


                    AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

    PROGRAM FOR ANNUAL MEETING, RECEPTION TO THE SOCIETY BY THE
      PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, AND ANNUAL BANQUET AT WASHINGTON,
      D. C., JANUARY 16, 1909.

  Our fellow-member, Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
  States, will receive the Society at the White House at 2.30 p. m.
  Secretary Loeb requests us to be on time and provide each member with
  a card of identification. Such a card is enclosed and must be
  presented to the doorkeeper at the White House. Ladies and guests may
  accompany members, and tickets for them can be obtained from the
  Acting Secretary-General upon application of any member by mail or on
  the day of the Reception.

  Members whose convenience will permit will leave New York Saturday
  morning, January 16, 1909, from West 23d Street station at 7.50 a. m.,
  or from Liberty Street station at 8 a. m., to take the Royal Blue Line
  train leaving Jersey City at 8.12 a. m., arriving in Washington at
  1.12 p. m. Reduced round trip rates have been arranged for on this
  line, a dining-car will be attached for our comfort and convenience,
  and this is the only train landing us in Washington in time to get to
  our quarters at the hotel and be in season for the President’s
  Reception.

  Immediately after the President’s Reception, the annual meeting of the
  Society will be held in the parlors of the Hotel Raleigh, where the
  Society’s headquarters will be established, for the election of
  officers for the ensuing year, the receiving and acting upon
  resolutions on the death of several prominent members of the Society,
  including our deeply-lamented Secretary-General, and the transaction
  of such other business as may come before the meeting. The resolutions
  and eulogies to be offered are of a high order.

  At the termination of the business meeting, opportunity will be given
  to visit the capitol, Congressional Library, public buildings,
  historical societies, and other points of interest in Washington.

  The tickets for the dinner are $5.00 each and may be obtained from the
  Acting Secretary-General, whose address is below. It is very important
  that we know exactly how many members are to be present, and you are
  earnestly requested to send your remittance for tickets promptly so
  that we may notify Mr. Talty of the Hotel Raleigh how many he may
  expect. Members may invite guests at the same price per ticket.

  The Reception to the members of the Society by its officers will take
  place in the parlors of the Hotel Raleigh at 6.30 p. m., and this will
  be an excellent opportunity for exchange of good fellowship with the
  new members, nearly one hundred and fifty of whom have been elected
  during the past year. The Reception Committee, consisting of Michael
  W. Norton, Esq., of Rhode Island, Hon. John D. Crimmins of New York,
  Hon. Joseph Geoghegan of Utah, Patrick F. Magrath, Esq., of New York,
  Hon. John F. O’Connell of Rhode Island, Dr. M. F. Sullivan of
  Massachusetts, Bernard J. Joyce, Esq., of Massachusetts, Patrick
  Carter, Esq., of Rhode Island, T. Vincent Butler, Esq., of New York,
  John J. Daly, Esq., of New York, Gen. D. F. Collins of New Jersey,
  Francis I. McCanna, Esq., of Rhode Island, Hon. Alexander C. Eustace
  of New York, Hon. Thomas J. Lynch of Maine, Gen. John R. McGinness of
  Virginia, and Hon. Thomas M. Waller of Connecticut, will be in
  attendance during the day to do everything possible to make it a
  pleasant occasion for the members.

  At seven o’clock the annual dinner will take place. It will be in
  charge of the Dinner Committee, consisting of Hon. Edward A. Moseley,
  chairman; Rear Admiral John McGowan, these two former
  Presidents-General of the Society; Michael F. Dooley, Esq.,
  Treasurer-General; Hon. Lawrence O. Murray and Patrick J. Haltigan,
  Esq.

  An elaborate menu, excellent music and extensive floral decorations
  have been provided, and the principal speakers at the post-prandial
  exercises and their toasts will be as follows:


    “A Capitol Welcome,” Hon. Thomas H. Carter, U. S. Senator from
    Montana.

    “Irish Pioneers of New York,” Hon. Victor J. Dowling, Justice of the
    Supreme Court of the State of New York.

    “The Irish Pioneers of the West and Their Descendants,” Hon. Maurice
    T. Moloney, ex-Attorney General of Illinois.

    “Advantages of Historical Research to Irish Americans,” Hon. Robert
    J. Gamble, United States Senator from South Dakota.

    Other addresses will follow if time permits.


  Our list of guests is headed by Hon. Edward D. White of Louisiana,
  Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, and will include
  many notable men.

  Please send in your replies as early as possible. The seats at the
  table will be allotted members and guests in the order in which the
  applications are received. The officers of the Society earnestly
  request the attendance of every member who can make it possible to
  come, because it is desired to make an excellent showing in Washington
  and thus bring the Society and its work more successfully to the
  attention of all the people in the country interested in making
  “better known the Irish Chapter in American history.”

                    Yours fraternally,
                            FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, M. D., LL. D.,
                                                    _President-General_,
                                        33 W. 38th St., New York City.

  THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
          _Acting Secretary-General_,
                  49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.


The following blank was enclosed with the circular, in order that we
might have early information as to the number intending to be present:


        (The prompt return of this notice is earnestly requested.)

                    AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

      ANNUAL MEETING AND DINNER, AND RECEPTION TO THE SOCIETY BY THE
       PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, SATURDAY, JANUARY 16, 1909.

  THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE, ESQ.,
          _Acting Secretary-General_,
                  49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  _Dear Sir_: It is my intention to be present at the annual banquet of
  the American Irish Historical Society, to be held at Hotel Raleigh,
  Washington, D. C., Saturday evening, January 16, 1909.

                               Yours fraternally,
                                                   .....................

  I desire provision made for..........guests.

          (Make checks payable to
  Michael F. Dooley, Treasurer-General.)


The responses came in so well that the Society felt warranted in
ordering a special train for the comfortable transportation of members
and guests to Washington, and through our fellow-member, Mr. Henry L.
Joyce, the Royal Blue Line provided a train of six Pullman parlor-cars,
a dining-car and a baggage-car for our exclusive use, and so notified
the Society.

Further notice was then sent to the members as follows:


                    AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

  ANNUAL DINNER AND RECEPTION BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  WASHINGTON, D. C., JANUARY 16, 1909.

  Royal Blue Line train with special cars attached leaves New York, 23d
  Street station, at 7.50 a. m. If 100 members are on hand, a special
  train will be put in commission and start ten minutes later from the
  same place. Fares reduced for us on this line.

  We want at least 250 members at Washington. Ladies, accompanied by
  members, may attend reception and dinner. Tickets, $5 each.
  Headquarters, Hotel Raleigh. Reception at White House 2.30 p. m.
  Annual meeting at headquarters afterwards, and dinner at 7. Reception
  Committee at hotel all day.

  Messrs. Henry L. Joyce and W. C. Hope, respectively General Manager
  Marine Department and General Passenger Agent of the Royal Blue Line,
  will be at the 23d Street station with the Secretary-General early
  Saturday morning and full information may be had.

  This will be the best affair we have ever had. Excellent speakers,
  fine dinner, good music and floral decorations already provided for.
  Please be present.

                                                THOMAS Z. LEE,
                                                    _Secretary-General_.

  PROVIDENCE, R. I., Jan. 11, 1909.


A large party of members and guests availed themselves of the pleasure
of the special train, and our comfort was well cared for by Mr. Joyce,
ably assisted by Mr. P. Wilfred Heroy, Eastern Passenger Agent of the
Central Railroad of New Jersey, and a picked train crew.

Owing to a severe snowstorm encountered _en route_, it became evident
the special would not reach Washington on scheduled time, and a telegram
to Secretary Loeb was sent from Baltimore as follows:


  “Special train of American Irish Historical Society unavoidably
  delayed _en route_. Regret inability to reach White House before two
  forty-five.”


In order that no time should be lost, orders were given the train crew
to take the baggage of each passenger to the Hotel Raleigh, there to be
cared for until our return from the White House.

The following copy of the order given by C. H. English, Passenger
Trainmaster of the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey, providing for
the running of the special train, is interesting and gives us an idea of
the amount of detail necessary to clear the way for the operation of a
train on an up-to-date railroad, and the people to whom orders must go:


               THE CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY.

                            Central Division.

                                   JERSEY CITY, N. J., January 13, 1909.


    Mr. C. E. Chambers, Division Master Mechanic; Mr. A. E. Detro,
    General Foreman, Fiddlers; Mr. L. F. Duffy, Assistant Foreman,
    Fiddlers; Mr. C. L. Campbell, Chief Dispatcher, Jersey City; Mr. C.
    L. Hollis, Superintendent Marine Department, New York; Mr. W.
    Whittaker, Ferry Master, Jersey City; Mr. G. F. Wernert, Station
    Master, West 23d Street; Mr. C. H. Vanderveer, Station Master,
    Liberty Street.


  GENTLEMEN: Please arrange for special train Saturday, January 16, to
  leave West 23d Street 8.05 a. m., Liberty Street 8.15 a. m., for
  Washington, consisting of baggage car, dining car and six Pullman
  cars, account of American Irish Historical Society.

[Illustration:

  HON. LAWRENCE O. MURRAY, LL. D.

  Of Washington, D. C.

  Comptroller of the Currency.
]

  Will advise later regarding the return movement. Acknowledge receipt.

                                        Yours truly,
                                                C. H. ENGLISH,
                                                _Passenger Trainmaster_.


The Dinner Committee was on hand to meet the train and special street
cars were in readiness to take us to the Reception.

Nearly 300 members and guests were in attendance at the White House when
President Roosevelt made his appearance, accompanied by his military
attendants. He was in excellent spirits and pleased to see so large a
representation of the Society in Washington.

In introducing President Roosevelt to the assemblage, President-General
Quinlan said:


  “Ladies and Gentlemen, I am especially honored today in presenting to
  you the gifted ruler of our great nation, one who at all times has
  shown true sympathy with our cause and who has recorded his feeling by
  associating himself with our Society. It is with feelings of mingled
  pride and satisfaction that I introduce to you our fellow-member, Mr.
  Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States.”


President Roosevelt replied as follows:


  “It is a great pleasure to me to bid you welcome to Washington, and
  especially to have the chance of saying a word of greeting to you here
  in the White House. I am sorry we didn’t give you a little better
  weather, and I especially regret that, in view of the fact that so
  many of you have had the wisdom to bring your better halves with you;
  for I have always insisted that, while the average American citizen is
  a pretty good fellow, his wife is a still better fellow.

  “I need scarcely say the great interest that I take in the work of
  this body. Here on this continent we are building up a great new
  nation, a nation akin to, but different from, each of the Old World
  nations of middle and western Europe. To this country have come men of
  many different origins, and here they are being fused together into a
  new type, and it is greatly to be desired that we should have
  historical associations like this which shall commemorate the
  different strains in the national blood.

  “It is a mistake to suppose, as is so often assumed, that at the time
  of the Revolution our people were not of mixed blood. They were then,
  just as they are now. Many different strains from the beginning
  contributed to make up what is now American citizenship, and from the
  beginning in this country the men who themselves, or whose fathers,
  came from Ireland have played a great and leading part in the affairs
  of the nation. I myself have some of that blood in me, and doubtless
  this accounts for the difficulties with which I have found myself
  confronted at times. It may also account for my disposition after
  getting into a fight to let the other fellow know I was in it. I thank
  you, ladies and gentlemen, for coming here.”


There was great applause and much enthusiasm upon the well-chosen words,
and afterwards the assemblage formed in line and each person was
presented to President Roosevelt by President-General Quinlan and Hon.
Edward A. Moseley, Michael F. Dooley, Esq., Hon. Lawrence O. Murray and
Patrick J. Haltigan, Esq., of the Dinner Committee.

At the termination of the Reception the party went to the Hotel Raleigh
for the annual meeting.


                            ANNUAL MEETING.

The annual meeting of the Society was held this 16th day of January,
1909, in the banquet hall of the Hotel Raleigh, and was called to order
at 3.30 p. m. by President-General Quinlan, a large number of members
being present.

Reading of records of the previous meeting was omitted.

The first business being the election of officers for the ensuing year,
the Secretary-General read the following list of nominees selected by
the Executive Council to be voted upon at this meeting. Each of the
general officers were voted upon separately, and the members of the
Executive Council and list of State Vice-Presidents as a whole, and all
were unanimously elected to serve until the next annual meeting and
until others are chosen in their stead.

                          _President-General_,

                   FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, M. D., LL. D.,
                  33 West 38th Street, New York City.

                       _Vice-President-General_,

                         Hon. PATRICK T. BARRY,
                             Chicago, Ill.


                          _Secretary-General_,

                       THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE, Esq.,
                49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.


                          _Treasurer-General_,

                        MICHAEL F. DOOLEY, Esq.,
          President National Exchange Bank, Providence, R. I.


                       _Librarian and Archivist_,

                        THOMAS B. LAWLER, Esq.,
                             New York City.


                           _Historiographer_,

                         Hon. JAMES F. BRENNAN,
                          Peterborough, N. H.


                           EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

                           The foregoing and

  Hon. JOHN D. CRIMMINS, New York City.
  Hon. WILLIAM MCADOO, New York City.
  Hon. THOMAS B. FITZPATRICK, Boston, Mass.
  PATRICK F. MAGRATH, Esq., Binghamton, N. Y.
  Rev. JOHN J. MCCOY, LL. D., Worcester, Mass.
  THOMAS ADDIS EMMET, M. D., LL. D., New York City.
  EDWARD J. MCGUIRE, Esq., New York City.
  Hon. JOHN F. O’CONNELL, Providence, R. I.
  JAMES L. O’NEIL, Esq., Elizabeth, N. J.
  STEPHEN FARRELLY, Esq., New York City.
  CYRUS TOWNSEND BRADY, LL. D., Kansas City, Mo.
  Hon. THOMAS J. LYNCH, Augusta, Me.
  Gen. PHELPS MONTGOMERY, New Haven, Conn.
  PATRICK CARTER, Esq., Providence, R. I.
  Hon. PATRICK GARVAN, Hartford, Conn.
  JOHN J. LENEHAN, Esq., New York City.
  Col. JOHN MCMANUS, Providence, R. I.
  Hon. WILLIAM GORMAN, Philadelphia, Pa.
  J. LAWTON HIERS, M. D., of Savannah.
  JOHN F. DOYLE, Esq., New York City.


                         STATE VICE-PRESIDENTS.

  Maine—JAMES CUNNINGHAM, Esq., Portland.
  New Hampshire—Hon. JAMES F. BRENNAN, Peterborough.
  Vermont—JOHN D. HANRAHAN, M. D., Rutland.
  Massachusetts—M. J. JORDAN, Esq., Boston.
  Rhode Island—Hon. PATRICK J. MCCARTHY, Providence.
  Connecticut—DENNIS H. TIERNEY, Esq., Waterbury.
  New York—JOSEPH I. C. CLARKE, Esq., New York City.
  New Jersey—JOHN F. KENAH, Esq., Elizabeth, N. J.
  Pennsylvania—HUGH MCCAFFREY, Esq., Philadelphia.
  Delaware—JOHN J. CASSIDY, Esq., Wilmington.
  Virginia—JAMES W. MCCARRICK, Esq., Norfolk.
  West Virginia—JOHN F. HEALY, Esq., Thomas, Tucker County.
  North Carolina—MICHAEL J. CORBETT, Wilmington.
  South Carolina—W. J. O’HAGAN, Esq., Charleston.
  Georgia—Capt. JOHN FLANNERY, Savannah.
  Ohio—JOHN LAVELLE, Esq., Cleveland.
  Oklahoma—JOSEPH F. SWORDS, Esq., Sulphur.
  Illinois—Hon. MAURICE T. MOLONEY, Ottawa.
  Indiana—Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C., Notre Dame.
  Iowa—Rt. Rev. PHILIP J. GARRIGAN, D. D., Sioux City.
  Mississippi—Dr. R. A. QUIN, Vicksburg.
  Montana—Rt. Rev. M. C. LENIHAN, D. D., Great Falls.
  Minnesota—Hon. C. D. O’BRIEN, St. Paul.
  Kentucky—JOHN J. SLATTERY, Esq., Louisville.
  Kansas—PATRICK H. CONEY, Esq., Topeka.
  Utah—JOSEPH GEOGHEGAN, Esq., Salt Lake City.
  Texas—Gen. A. G. MALLOY, El Paso.
  California—Capt. JAMES CONNOLLY, Esq., Coronado.


                         OTHER VICE-PRESIDENTS.

  District of Columbia—Hon. EDWARD A. MOSELEY, Washington.
  Ireland—Dr. MICHAEL F. COX, Dublin.
  Germany—Hon. T. ST. JOHN GAFFNEY, Dresden.
  Austria—Dr. THOMAS F. KENNEY, Vienna.

After the election, the Secretary-General stated that several letters of
regret had been received by the Society, and they were ordered read.
They are as follows:


                                                       January 14, 1909.

  _My dear Doctor Quinlan_:

  Nothing could have given me greater pleasure than to be able to attend
  the annual meeting and reception to the American Irish Historical
  Society by President Roosevelt on Saturday evening, the 16th inst.
  Unfortunately, I am so tied up with engagements on that evening that
  it will be impossible for me to leave here, one being a dinner
  engagement of long standing, which, however, I might be able to break;
  but, in addition, I am scheduled to speak at the annual meeting and
  banquet of the field force of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company,
  of which, as you know, I am a director, and which is to be held at
  Delmonico’s. This arrangement was made prior to the time when the date
  of the reception to your Society was fixed, and it is incumbent upon
  me to be present, and while I fully intended going to Washington and
  attending the reception, and so expressed myself to Judge Dowling,
  who, I understand, is to deliver an address, yet I now realize the
  impracticability of being in two places at the same time, and will
  therefore have to forego the pleasure of being there.

  I trust you will appreciate my position, and I assure you that
  ordinarily I would be only too glad to break any engagement I might
  have and avail myself of the pleasure of being present on such an
  occasion, but in reaching a decision I could not do otherwise than
  give way in favor of the engagement which was prior in point of time.

  I deeply appreciate your kind expressions, and the more than
  attractive manner in which you urge me to be present, all of which
  would be unnecessary in any matter in which you were concerned,
  because the mere expression of your wish that you desired my
  co-operation in any of the good works in which you are interested
  would always receive from me a prompt response.

  With kind regards personally, believe me to be,

                                           Sincerely yours,

           FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, M. D.,       MORGAN J. O’BRIEN.
               33 West 38th Street, New York City.


       THOMAS Z. LEE, Esq.,         AUGUSTA, ME., January 14, 1909.
           _Secretary-General American Irish Historical Society_,
                                           Providence, R. I.

  _My dear Mr. Lee_: I have received your several communications in
  regard to the meeting and annual dinner on January 16 at Washington,
  and I planned to go, but things have so shaped themselves that I find
  it impossible to leave at this time. I certainly regret very much my
  inability to attend, but do wish you all possible success.

           Believe me,         Yours respectfully,
                                               THOMAS J. LYNCH.

         Hon. THOMAS Z. LEE,         NEW YORK, January 14, 1909.
             _Acting Secretary-General_,
                         Providence, R. I.

  _My dear Judge_: I have to thank you for your letter of the 13th
  inst., but regret that I shall not be able to leave New York on
  Saturday to attend the meeting of our Society in Washington. Herewith
  I give you my check for $5 to cover the amount of my dues for the
  current year.

  Wishing you a very delightful trip and a good time at the convention,
  I remain,

                                     Yours very truly,
                                                         WILLIS B. DOWD.


  SALEM, MASS., January 14, 1909.

  Hon. THOMAS Z. LEE, _Secretary-General of the American Irish
  Historical Society_, Providence, R. I.

  _My dear Sir_: The Mayor has been sick since Friday of last week, and
  although he is now out of bed the doctor positively forbids him to
  make a trip to Washington. He sent a message to me requesting me to
  notify you of this fact and to express to you his deep regret. I know
  he was looking forward with very pleasant anticipation to this trip
  and to his meeting with you again.

  I find in the mail two tickets to the banquet and not appreciating the
  situation fully I am enclosing them to you, thinking that you may be
  able to make some use of them as long as the Mayor can not go, but if
  these are sent out and charged to the persons to whom they are sent,
  you will please advise the Mayor and he will send you the cost of the
  same.

                           Yours very respectfully,
                                       JOS. B. SAUNDERS,
                                               _Secretary to the Mayor_.


                                    HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
                                            WASHINGTON, January 8, 1909.

  Hon. THOMAS Z. LEE,
      Providence, R. I.

  _My dear Sir_: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of a ticket to
  the annual banquet of the American Irish Historical Society, to be
  held at Hotel Raleigh January 16, 1909, at 7 p. m., and sincerely
  thank you for the favor.

  Will endeavor to be present, but on account of business appointments
  that I have about that time that will take me away from Washington and
  probably will not allow my return in time, would suggest that you do
  not figure on my making any remarks at the meeting.

  With best wishes for the Society’s success,

                                        Very truly yours,
                                                        BIRD S. MCGUIRE.


[Illustration:

  MR. BERNARD J. JOYCE.

  Of Boston, Mass.

  One of our most earnest and learned members.
]


                                                       January 12, 1909.

  MR. THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
      _Acting Secretary-General_,
          49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  _My dear Judge Lee_: I have deferred writing you on the subject of
  attending the forthcoming banquet of the American Irish Historical
  Society in the hope that I might find it possible to be present.
  However, I am doomed to disappointment. I cannot, much as I regret it,
  find a way to be with you and our friends to share in the festivities.
  That you will have an edifying and jolly good time goes without saying
  and I regret exceedingly my inability to share in it. With cordial
  best wishes,

                                      Sincerely yours,
                                                          A. C. EUSTACE.


                                                        January 7, 1909.

  MR. THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
      Providence, Rhode Island.

  _My dear Mr. Lee_: It is with sincere regret that I am compelled to
  advise you of my inability to participate in the annual exercises of
  the American Irish Historical Society in Washington, D. C., January
  16. I assure you it is a grievous disappointment to me, but conditions
  are such that it will be impossible for me to leave Utah at the
  present time.

  Please convey to my fellow-members my very best wishes for the
  continued prosperity of the Society. With my best personal regards to
  yourself, I remain,

                                   Yours very truly,
                                                       JOSEPH GEOGHEGAN.


                                     WASHINGTON, D. C., January 8, 1909.

  THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE, Esq.,
              Providence, R. I.

  _Dear Sir_: I regret that an engagement to consecrate an altar at
  Columbia, S. C., on January the 17th will deprive me of the pleasure
  of joining you at the reception at the White House January 16.

  With best wishes for the New Year, I remain

                                            Very sincerely yours,
                                                        D. J. O’CONNELL.


                                         ELMIRA, N. Y., January 7, 1909.

  Hon. THOMAS Z. LEE,
      _Secretary-General, etc._,
              Providence, R. I.

  _My dear Judge Lee_: I am just home from the Appellate Division of our
  Supreme Court at Albany, and have your kind invitation to attend the
  dinner of the American Irish Historical Society at Washington on the
  16th inst. as the guest of the Society.

  I very greatly appreciate the honor of this invitation and I have
  delayed answer for a day trying to arrange my engagements so that I
  could have the pleasure of meeting with the Society on that occasion,
  but I am very sorry to find that it will be impossible for me to reach
  Washington for the 16th. I cannot tell you how deeply I regret my
  enforced absence.

  With kindest regards to yourself and the many members of the Society
  to whose hospitality I am so indebted, and with cordial thanks for the
  honor of the invitation believe me,

                                         Faithfully yours,
                                                         D. C. ROBINSON.


                                       NEW YORK, N. Y., January 4, 1909.

  THOMAS Z. LEE, Esq.,

  _Dear Sir_: Justice Hendrick acknowledges notice of the general
  meeting at Washington and expresses regret that owing to the pressure
  of court duties it will be impossible for him to attend.

                                    Very truly yours,
                                            EDWARD T. MCCRYSTAL,
                                                            _Secretary_.


                                            NEW YORK, December 31, 1908.

  MR. THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
      _Acting Secretary-General American Irish Historical Society_,
                                  49 Westminster Street, Providence, R.
                                     I.

  _My dear Sir_: I regret exceedingly that I cannot go with you and be
  present at the reception to the American Irish Historical Society by
  His Excellency President Roosevelt, as I anticipate being away from
  New York about that time.

  I believe you will have a very pleasant time and my best wishes go
  with you.

  With all the compliments of the season, believe me,

                                                 Fraternally yours,
                                                         RICHARD DEEVES.


  NEW YORK, December 31, 1908.

  FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, M. D., 33 W. 38th Street, City.

  _Dear Sir_: Yours with enclosure received. Regret to say I will not
  have the pleasure of attending the annual meeting of the Historical
  Society at Washington, as I expect to be in the South at that time.

  Trusting you will have the usual good time, I remain

                                              Very respectfully,
                                                          JOHN F. KEHOE.


                                         DUBUQUE, IOWA, January 2, 1909.

  THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE, Esq.,

  _Dear Sir_: I beg to inform you that Archbishop Keane is not home, nor
  is his return expected for some months. It will therefore be
  impossible for him to accept the kind invitation of the American Irish
  Historical Society.

                                    Sincerely yours,
                                                        M. BARRY,
                                                            _Secretary_.


  BOSTON, January 5, 1909.

  T. Z. LEE, Esq., Providence, R. I.

  _Dear Sir_: I am sorry I will be unable to attend the meeting of the
  Society in Washington. Am very sorry I cannot be there.

                                                    Very truly,
                                                            F. L. DUNNE.


                                               CHICAGO, January 4, 1909.

  THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE, Esq.,
      _Acting Secretary-General, American Irish Historical Society_,
                  49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  _Dear Sir_: Your esteemed favor announcing the forthcoming annual
  banquet of the Society at the Hotel Raleigh in Washington, and also
  the reception to be given to the Society by President Roosevelt on
  January the 16th is received, and for which accept thanks. I regret
  exceedingly that it will be impossible for me to be present on that
  occasion. I have been somewhat ailing for several weeks past and am
  recuperating so slowly that I fear I will be unable to get away from
  my home at the date of your banquet. Should I feel able to do so,
  however, it will afford me great pleasure to be present, as I always
  enjoy the annual dinner of the Society.

                With best wishes,        Very truly yours,
                                                            P. T. BARRY.


                             29 BEACON STREET, BOSTON, January 13, 1909.

  _Dear Judge Lee_: The meeting in Washington comes at the time of our
  annual firm meeting and I regret exceedingly I shall not be able to be
  with you. I trust you will have an enthusiastic meeting.

                                           Cordially yours,
                                                       THOMAS B. LAWLER.


                                        BOSTON, MASS., January 15, 1909.

  MR. THOMAS Z. LEE,
      _Acting Secretary-General, The American Irish Historical Society_,
                                  49 Westminster Street, Providence, R.
                                     I.

  _My dear Mr. Lee_: Your esteemed favor of the 6th inst. reached me
  during a trip in the West and I appreciate very much indeed your
  remembrance of me by your kind invitation to be the guest of your
  Society at the annual banquet in Washington, D. C., on the evening of
  January 16, at the Hotel Raleigh, and also to attend with you a
  reception at the White House by President Roosevelt.

  Although it will be impossible for me to accept these courtesies, I
  beg to express my great appreciation of the same and to assure you
  that it will always be my pleasure to at any time entertain the
  Society at my home in Lexington whenever it is their pleasure to visit
  our good old town.

                                     Very sincerely yours,
                                                         GEO. W. TAYLOR.


                                     ELIZABETH, N. J., January 15, 1909.

  _My dear Judge_: My absence this evening I exceedingly regret. I trust
  the dinner and meeting will be pleasant and interesting. What heart
  does not dilate with feelings to this night’s occasion, and what a
  host of interesting recollections spring up in the mind when we
  reflect upon the time when Irishmen came to the shores of this country
  in the spirit of holy zeal, leaving the land of their birth, braving
  the winds of Heaven and the angry wrath of the mighty Atlantic,
  landing in the wilderness and planting the seeds of a holy religion as
  well as laying the foundation of the mighty and greatest of all
  republics.

  I am with you in spirit this evening and I hope the effects of our
  good Society will establish its prestige in every city and town of
  this country of ours.

                                           Yours fraternally,
                                                       JAMES L. O’NEILL.


  NORFOLK, VA., January 15, 1909.

  To the American Irish Historical Society,

  Hotel Raleigh, Washington, D. C.

  _Gentlemen_: Until today it was my intention and hope to be with you
  in Washington tomorrow. Conditions beyond control will prevent,
  consequently my greetings must be conveyed by mail.

                            Fraternally yours,
                                        JAMES W. MCCARRICK,
                                            Vice-President for Virginia.

  Mr. T. Z. LEE,
      _Acting Secretary-General_,
          49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.


Mr. Patrick M. Keating presented and read the following memorial to the
late Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, former President-General of the Society,
which was adopted by unanimous vote:


                     MEMORIAL OF THOMAS J. GARGAN.


  “The members of the American Irish Historical Society by this memorial
  desire to pay a tribute of love and respect to the memory of their
  late associate and President-General, Thomas J. Gargan, and to express
  their appreciation of his character and ability and their recognition
  of the great loss the Society has sustained in his death.

  “His parents were among the pioneer Irish emigrants who came to this
  country in the early part of the nineteenth century and settled in
  Boston, where he was born about sixty-six years ago.

  “In early life he was engaged in mercantile pursuits, but the practice
  of law strongly attracted him and he was admitted to the bar in the
  year 1875. As a lawyer he was not merely a successful practitioner,
  but an ornament to the profession, scorning to descend to dishonorable
  tactics or to adopt the acts of a pettifogger.

  “He filled various positions of honor and responsibility, both public
  and private, faithfully and efficiently. He took an active part in
  causes that brought into requisition the zeal, sympathy and interest
  of worthy citizens and rendered valuable service to his city, state
  and country. Whether it was a call for patriotic service for the
  preservation of the republic or an invitation to join his fellow
  citizens in aiding a people struggling for liberty, or in providing
  relief for those who were afflicted by reason of some extraordinary
  catastrophe—on all such occasions he responded cheerfully and
  contributed his full share by word and by deed.

  “While he rendered conspicuous public service as an American citizen
  he was ever mindful of the land of his forefathers, and of the race
  from which he sprung. In early manhood he became the president of the
  Charitable Irish Society of Boston, which is one of the oldest
  societies in this country, having been established in the year 1737,
  and from the time the American Irish Historical Society was organized
  he was interested in its welfare, and was honored about ten years ago
  by being elected to the highest office within the gift of its members.

  “His eloquence, copiousness of ideas and fluency of speech made his
  orations edifying and instructive, and his voice, so rich and tender
  and with depth of feeling, made the public addresses delivered by him
  in memory of the late Mayor Collins and other distinguished men,
  models of eulogistic oratory.

  “But he was esteemed most highly by the members of this Society as a
  true and kind friend, whose sunny temperament, sparkling wit, genial
  humor and upright character won their love and admiration and will
  long keep him alive in their memories.”

  _Resolved_, That this memorial be entered upon the records of this
  Society and that a copy thereof be sent to the widow of our late
  fellow-member together with the assurance of the deep respect and
  affection in which he was held by us and the expression of our
  heartfelt sympathy in her sorrow and bereavement.

  Mr. Keating’s eulogy followed the memorial and was an eloquent tribute
  to our late President-General.


Mr. Gargan was born at Boston, Mass., October 27, 1844, and died at
Berlin, Germany, July 31, 1908.

The following memorial to the late Mr. James J. Phelan was presented and
read by Mr. Edward J. McGuire, and it was unanimously voted that the
same be adopted and that a copy thereof be sent to the family of Mr.
Phelan:


                      MEMORIAL OF JAMES J. PHELAN.


  “James J. Phelan died at his country home at Allenhurst, New Jersey,
  on August 3, 1908, in the sixty-first year of his age. He was a native
  of the city of New York.

  “His father was of Irish birth. His mother was a native of Maryland.
  His father, John Phelan, came to New York in his early youth with his
  father. They settled in Greenwich Village, afterwards known as the
  “Old Ninth Ward,” early in the nineteenth century, and established a
  successful business in the grocery trade. John Phelan was a man of
  shrewdness and commercial ability, which qualities he transmitted to
  his son. He was one of the Phelan family that distinguished itself in
  the commerce of San Francisco in the pioneer days and still maintains
  its high reputation there. John Phelan largely increased his fortune
  by his relations to the trade with California in the decade between
  1850 and 1860.

  “James J. Phelan attended first the public schools and then the
  commercial department of the College of St. Francis Xavier, of which
  famous institution he remained a steadfast friend ever afterwards.

  “In 1867, his father, intending him for a business career, established
  him as the proprietor of a general store at Fordham, which was then a
  village in Westchester County but which now forms one of the important
  centers in the borough of the Bronx, New York City. He spent the
  formative years of his business life in the conduct of this venture.

  “In 1870, at the age of twenty-five, he formed the firm of Phelan and
  Duval, which engaged in the wholesale wine and spirits trade and
  became one of the important houses in its department. He continued in
  active management of the affairs of this business until the year 1883,
  when he took charge of even larger interests.

  “The American Contracting and Dredging Company was formed about that
  time among other things for construction work upon the Panama canal
  under the French concessionaries. It controlled valuable patent rights
  in dredging machinery. It secured several important contracts from
  Count Ferdinand de Lesseps as president of the French company and
  afterwards constructed fifteen miles of the Panama canal. It was most
  successful financially and its careful management avoided serious
  complications with the misfortunes of the Frenchmen. When its
  contracts were completed it withdrew from the field. Mr. Phelan was
  one of the master minds in this great work. Among his associates were
  Eugene Kelly, Charles N. Fry and George Bliss of distinguished and
  honorable memory in American finance, and Commander Gorringe of the
  United States Navy, who will be remembered for his engineering success
  in transporting the obelisk from Egypt to Central Park and setting it
  in its place without a single mishap.

  “This, however, was but one of the important enterprises carried on by
  Mr. Phelan with success. His ability in commercial and corporate
  affairs was rare and as his remarkable grasp of great affairs and his
  skill in their administration became known he was invited into
  enterprises of the most important and lucrative character. He achieved
  from them a large fortune as well as a high reputation in finance. He
  died a member of the Chamber of Commerce of the City of New York.

  “His active business life did not absorb all his energies. He was a
  man who from his youth took active part in the political life of the
  city. He joined also the societies working in the field of religion
  and morality. He was fond of his friends and of social life. He was
  always faithful to the traditions of the old Irish race from which he
  was descended and active in its cause.

  “In 1890 he became a commissioner of the Dock Department of the City
  of New York on the appointment of Mayor Hugh J. Grant. He left upon
  that office the impress of his ability in one of the most important
  divisions of the affairs of the world’s greatest seaport, at a time
  when millions of dollars were available and were spent in providing
  for the oceanic trade of the port of New York. His service lasted four
  years, when he resigned with the praise and good wishes of the entire
  municipality.

  “He was identified almost from his youth with the work of the Xavier
  Alumni Sodality, of the Catholic Club and of the St. Vincent de Paul
  Society. He rendered each of them great service, both as an officer
  and as a member. He was a trustee of the Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum,
  of the Catholic Benevolent Legion, of the Catholic Summer School and
  of many other philanthropic societies. He was a member of many of them
  in their struggling years and he gave his powers and his industry in
  full measure to their proper development.

  “He was a member of the American Irish Historical Society from its
  establishment. He was always most interested in its work and devoted
  to the cause for which it stood. His pleasant face will be missed from
  its gatherings.

  “He was married twice, the second time in 1881 to Marie Foran of New
  York. He had four sons and four daughters, who with his widow survive
  him.

  “James J. Phelan was an example of the truth that in proper conditions
  the men of the Irish race surely rise to eminence in fields in which
  the current prejudice and error of the age deny that excellence is
  possible to them. From small beginnings and in conflict with adverse
  circumstances he rose to great fortune and conspicuous position in the
  metropolis by the exercise of thrift, temperance, honesty and
  intelligence. He met all sorts and conditions of men and asking no
  favor he conquered success, holding fast at the same time to the
  ideals of the race from which he sprung and the ancient faith to which
  he was ever loyal.”


The following memorial to the late Thomas Hamilton Murray, former
Secretary-General of the Society, was presented and read by the present
Secretary-General, Mr. Thomas Z. Lee, and it was unanimously voted that
the same be adopted and that a copy thereof be sent to the widow of Mr.
Murray:


                  MEMORIAL OF THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY.


  “On June 5, 1908, Thomas Hamilton Murray, editor, genealogist and
  historian, died at his home in Sea View in the town of Marshfield,
  Massachusetts, in the fifty-first year of his age.

  “He was one of the founders of the American Irish Historical Society
  and its Secretary-General from the date of its organization until his
  death. During his administration the Society grew in numbers and
  influence, pursuing its good work and historical researches into most
  of the states of the Union, until he saw it occupying the foremost
  place in this country of any organization engaged in similar work. He
  was proud of the Society and gave it his best efforts. To him every
  individual member was personally known, and he took pride in
  stimulating each with a sense of the responsibility undertaken in
  making better known the Irish chapter in American history.

  “Mr. Murray obtained his early education in the public schools of
  Newton, Cambridge and Boston, Mass., and, when he reached his
  majority, chose journalism as his profession. He was a close observer,
  a ready writer and possessed a style direct and attractive. The seven
  volumes of the JOURNAL edited by him bear eloquent testimony to his
  literary ability. For a while he contributed educational, literary and
  historical articles to the _Boston Pilot_ and enjoyed the coöperation
  and friendship of its then editor, John Boyle O’Reilly; later he
  became a member of the staff of the _Boston Globe_, where he remained
  several years. Ben Palmer was editor of the _Globe_ at that time, and
  the _Globe_ office was one of the best schools of journalism in the
  country. With a well-regulated mind and a strong constitution, Mr.
  Murray worked hard and the training there obtained well fitted him for
  the life work he had undertaken and the filling of important positions
  to which he was later called.

  “After leaving the _Globe_, Mr. Murray became court reporter for the
  _Boston Daily Star_, then editor of the _Roxbury Advocate_, and
  afterwards editor of the _Daily Advertiser_, a morning paper at
  Shelton, Conn. He next became night editor of the _Morning News_, of
  Bridgeport, Conn., but soon returned to day work and became editor of
  the _Daily Record_ at Meriden, Conn., where he remained until called
  to the editorial chair of the _Evening and Sunday Telegram_ at
  Providence, R. I. After five years in this position, he became editor
  of the _Lawrence Daily Sun_, and four years later took charge of the
  _Evening Call_ at Woonsocket.

  “He had long taken a deep interest in historical studies, particularly
  in relation to the events and epochs of persons of Irish extraction,
  and his lectures and writings showed not only his devotion to his
  subjects, but a wide range of learning and research as well as a high
  order of literary ability. In addition to his invaluable work for this
  Society he was the author of many historical works, some of which are
  as follows:


    “The Libraries of Boston: Public, Semi-Public and Probate. (Boston,
    1882.)

    “The Old Schoolmasters of Boston. (Boston, 1884.)

    “The Mason Name in New England History. (Boston, 1884.)

    “The Thayer Name in America. (Boston, 1884.)

    “The Irish Element in Connecticut. (Bridgeport, Ct., 1888.)

    “From Dawn to Revolution. (Boston, 1889.)

    “Thirty Historic American Families of Irish Extraction. (Boston,
    1889.)

    “Reminiscences of Life Along Narragansett’s Shores. (Providence, R.
    I., 1890.)

    “Rambles in Rhode Island’s South County. (Providence, 1891.)

    “Some Early Irish Members of the Society of Friends in Rhode Island.
    (Providence, 1894.)

    “The Dorrance Purchase—An Irish Leaf from Rhode Island History.
    (Boston, 1895.)

    “The Dunlevy Family in Irish History; Sketch of the Clan’s Patrimony
    in Ancient Ulidia. (Lawrence, Mass., 1895.)

    “David O’Killia (O’Kelly), the Irishman; A Pioneer Settler at
    Yarmouth, Mass., as early as 1675. (Boston, 1895.)

    “Concerning the McGuinness, McGinnis Name. (Providence, R. I.,
    1895.)

    “The Irish Chapter in the History of Brown University. (Providence,
    1896.)

    “The Dempsey Name, Old and Puissant. (Denver, Col., 1898.)

    “The Irish Soldiers in King Philip’s War—“Great Swamp” Fight. (New
    York City, 1896.)

    “The First Regiment, Pennsylvania Line, In the Revolution. (Boston,
    1896.)

    “The Irish Morrisons; A Glance at the Origin of the Clan Name,
    Together with Reference to the Family’s Patrimony in the Ancient
    Kingdom of Connacht. (Lawrence, Mass., 1896.)

    “Some Patricks of the Revolution. (New York City, 1896–’97.)

    “Five Colonial Irish Rhode Islanders. (Providence, 1897.)

    “Some Facts Concerning the Irish Washingtons. (Boston, 1898.)

    “Early Irish Schoolmasters in Rhode Island. (Washington, D. C.,
    1898.)

    “The French Chapter in American History. (Boston, 1899.)

    “Matthew Watson, an Irish Settler of Barrington, R. I., 1723.
    (Boston, 1900.)

    “The Irish Moss Gatherers of Scituate, Mass. (New York City, 1900.)

    “The Irish at the Battle of Bunker Hill, 1775. (Boston, 1900.)

    “A Point Made Clear—The Brecks of Dorchester, Mass. (Boston, 1901.)

    “Irish Settlers, Previous to 1742, in Portsmouth, N. H. (Boston,
    1901.)

    “The Story of Miss Fitzgerald. (Boston, 1901.)

    “The Romance of Sarah Alexander. (New York City, 1901.)

    “Early Irish in the Plymouth Colony. (Boston, 1901.)

    “Charles MacCarthy, a Rhode Island Pioneer, 1677. (Somerset, O.,
    1901.)

    “Thomas Casey of Ireland and Rhode Island, 1636–1719. (Boston,
    1901.)

    “The Voyage of _The Seaflower_—from Ireland to Boston, 1741.
    (Boston, 1902.)

    “Early Irish Educators of American Youth. (San Francisco, Cal.,
    1902.)

    “A Glance at the Vanguard—Irish Pioneers in Colonial Massachusetts.
    (Boston, 1902.)

    “Richard Dexter, a Forgotten Irish Pioneer of Boston, Mass., 1641.
    (New York City, 1902.)

    “Hugh Gaine, Irishman, New York Publisher, 1752–1809. (Boston,
    1902.)

    “Gen. John Sullivan and the Battle of Rhode Island. (Providence,
    1902.)

    “The American Not an ‘Anglo-Saxon’ People. (Boston, 1902.)


  “To the American Irish Historical Society he was ever loyal and
  faithful. No call for service came to him in its behalf to which he
  did not respond. The highest office in the Society he might have had
  and political preferment could have been his from the appreciative
  citizens of Rhode Island and Massachusetts, but he turned from them
  lest his time and efforts might be diverted from that branch of
  history he loved so well. As long as his strength held out, he was in
  the harness serving the Society and, at our last annual meeting in New
  York, unable to walk, he was carried from the Grand Central Depot to
  the Manhattan Hotel, and there he conducted to the end the magnificent
  dinner and entertainment that followed the meeting. The effort was
  almost fatal, and during the night loving and tender friends watched
  over him but, by determined will, he rallied and reached his pretty
  villa at Sea View from which he never departed again in life. In all
  his work for the Society, he was ably assisted by his noble wife, Mary
  H. Sullivan Murray, a lady of great intelligence and refinement, who
  took up the work of the Secretary-General and faithfully maintained it
  until a member could be selected to relieve her. In paying our deep
  tribute to her husband, it would be amiss not to mention the faithful
  wife and assistant who now mourns with us his loss.

  “We wish to record here the great benefits which we have received from
  the work and services of our first Secretary-General and pay tribute
  to his learning and ability; we further record the deep sorrow with
  which we look upon his vacant place, and, lastly, we record our loving
  tribute of affection for Thomas Hamilton Murray as a man, fearless,
  honest and faithful, an upright citizen and an earnest member of the
  Society.

  “‘The soil out of which such men as he are made is good to be born on,
  good to live on, good to die for and be buried in.’”


_Resolved_, That the American Irish Historical Society, in appreciation
of the services and efforts in its behalf by Thomas Hamilton Murray,
late Secretary-General, unanimously adopts the minute prepared by Mr.
Lee, orders that it be spread in full upon the records of the Society,
and that a copy of the same under the seal of the Society be presented
to the widow, Mrs. Mary H. Sullivan Murray.


The following are a few of the many letters received by Mrs. Murray
immediately before and after the death of our late Secretary-General:


                                                  NEW YORK, May 9, 1908.

  _Dear Mrs. Murray_: I am pained to learn of Mr. Murray’s low
  condition. You have my heartfelt sympathy. Mr. Magrath has just
  called, and spoke of his visit. I am still hoping that Mr. Murray will
  rally.

  I am writing Mr. Lee of Providence to call, as I understand Mr. Murray
  wishes to see some member of the Society.

  We have missed Mr. Murray greatly the last few months and will miss
  him always, for he may be considered as the founder of that honorable
  association of men, the American Irish Historical Society.

  With the assurance of my esteem and regard together with my sincere
  sympathy, I am, dear madam.

                                               Very truly yours,
                                                       JOHN D. CRIMMINS.

  MRS. THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
      Humarock Beach, Sea View, Mass.


                               (Telegram.)

                                                 NEW YORK, June 5, 1908.

  MRS. T. H. MURRAY,
  Sea View, Mass.

  We tender you our deepest sympathy in this hour of your great
  bereavement. Will attend funeral.

                                                     FRANCIS J. QUINLAN.


                               (Telegram.)

                                                 NEW YORK, June 5, 1908.

  MRS. M. H. S. MURRAY,
          Sea View, Mass.

  Sincere and profound sympathy on the death of your husband.

                                                       JOHN D. CRIMMINS.


                                                 NEW YORK, June 6, 1908.

  MICHAEL J. JORDAN, Esq.,
      3 DeWolfe Street, Dorchester, Mass.

  _Dear Mr. Jordan_: I have received the news of Mr. Thomas Hamilton
  Murray’s death with profound regret, and am very sorry that an
  important engagement for Monday will prevent my going to Boston for
  the funeral.

  I beg you will convey to Mr. Murray’s family my sincere sympathy and
  condolence in their sad bereavement.

[Illustration:

  RIGHT REVEREND PHILIP J. GARRIGAN, D. D.

  Bishop of Sioux City, Ia.

  Vice-President of the Society for Iowa.
]

  We have all suffered a great loss in his death; and the noble work he
  carried forward so devotedly in developing the Irish chapter in
  American history will not readily find again as zealous or able an
  advocate. He had been the steady reliance of the Society. The
  patriotic work he did will long be a pride and glory to the race he
  loved and the cause so faithfully served.

  With profound regret and sincerely sympathizing with all his friends
  and fellow members, I am,

                                        Faithfully yours,
                                                        JNO. J. LENEHAN.


                                         ELIZABETH, N. J., June 7, 1908.

  _Dear Mrs. Murray_: Accept my sincere condolences on the death of your
  dear husband, which I read in the _New York Herald_ this morning with
  profound sorrow.

  We have lost a noble and a true friend to the American Irish
  Historical Society. In looking back over the past it is consoling to
  think his life has been a most exemplary one. How much better would
  our communities be, if we had more such men as your husband. His good
  and simple life was a model for all. He was a man whose character was
  the soul of buoyancy and kindness.

                               With deep grief,
                                           I remain respectfully,
                                                       JAMES L. O’NEILL.

  220 Franklin Street.


                                          HARTFORD, CONN., June 8, 1908.

  MR. MICHAEL J. JORDAN,
      3 DeWolfe Street, Dorchester, Mass.

  _Dear Sir_: Your telegram received, and I regret exceedingly that I
  was unable to reach Boston in time for Secretary Murray’s funeral.

  I was very, very sorry to hear of his death, and while it is a great
  loss to his family, our Society has lost a very valuable member.
  Please convey my sympathy to the family.

  I do not know what the circumstances of the family are, but certainly
  the Society if necessary should do something to assist them at this
  time. I know that in his home loving hands did all they could for him
  and it is for the Society to assist financially if necessary.

                                         Very truly yours,
                                                         PATRICK GARVAN.


                                                 NEW YORK, June 9, 1908.

  MICHAEL J. JORDAN, Esq.,
      3 DeWolfe Street, Dorchester, Mass.

  _My dear Mr. Jordan_: Your telegram notifying me of the time of Mr.
  Murray’s funeral reached me yesterday morning on my return to the
  city. I regret exceedingly the untimely death of our friend. He was a
  devoted and whole-souled worker in the cause of historic truth. I have
  never met anyone who surpassed him in zeal and unselfishness. He
  leaves vacant a place in the ranks of the lovers of the Irish race and
  the adherents of the Catholic Church which it will be hard to fill.

  I have not the address of his family. May I ask you kindly to extend
  to them my heartfelt sympathy?

                                              Yours very truly,
                                                      Edward J. McGuire.


                                       PROVIDENCE, R. I., June 22, 1908.

  MRS. THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
      Carlton Road, Sea View, Mass.

  _Dear Mrs. Murray_: I am very sorry to learn of the death of Mr.
  Murray. I did not hear of it till it was too late for me to attend the
  funeral to show the respect and esteem I have felt for him from the
  first time I met him, several years before the American Irish
  Historical Society was organized. From that time to this our relations
  were most cordial and my most sincere sympathy is extended to yourself
  and your family for the great loss you have sustained. It is a great
  loss. You and your family have not alone felt this loss, but everyone
  who had or has any interest in American Irish history must also
  recognize it. It will be hard to get a man to fill his place in this
  latter capacity. Again let me express my sincere sympathy with you in
  your bereavement.

  Let me thank you for the return of the pictures that I received last
  Saturday. I was thinking, before their receipt, where I would send a
  letter addressed to you expressive of my sympathy at your loss but
  could not make up my mind where to send it. I saw the Sea View
  postmark on the envelope over the pictures and I send this to that
  address.

        Yours very respectfully, and in sincere sympathy,
                                                            JAMES MORAN.

  26 South Water Street.


                                       LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND, July 9, 1908.

  _Dear Mrs. Murray_: I have only now heard of dear Tom Murray’s death
  and I am so grieved over it that I can hardly contain myself to write
  you this letter.

  While his demise was not entirely unexpected it is nevertheless a
  great shock, and I hasten to extend my deep and heartfelt sympathy in
  this your time of sorrow. You have lost a good and worthy husband and
  I a true friend, of whom I was very fond, and I’m sorry that I was far
  away from home when he was taken by loving and tender hands to his
  last resting place.

  A clipping from a newspaper sent by my mother told the sad story. She
  sent it several days ago, but as I have been going about from place to
  place the news missed me till now.

  May God bless and protect you is my humblest wish for you this night.

                                  Yours with much sorrow,
                                                          THOMAS Z. LEE.


                                                NEW YORK, July 11, 1908.

  MRS. THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
      48 Carlton Road, Sea View, Mass.

  _Dear Madam_: I am just in receipt of a journal of the American Irish
  Historical Society with printed request that I acknowledge it to the
  Secretary-General. Would that I could, and that he were still with us!
  I learned some weeks ago of his death and I beg to offer you my
  sincere sympathy and pray Our Lady, the Consoler of the Afflicted, to
  comfort you and the Lord to grant him His reward, the reward of the
  faithful and just.

                                   Respectfully yours,
                                                       D. P. MURPHY, JR.


                                                NEW YORK, July 13, 1908.

  MRS. T. H. MURRAY,
      Humarock Beach, Sea View, Mass.

  _Dear Madam_: I received the JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL
  SOCIETY, Volume VII, 1907, and beg leave to thank you for the same. It
  is admirably gotten up in Mr. Murray’s usual good style and nicely
  illustrated, and well bound.

  It is like all the previous numbers, a monument to the great ability
  and devoted industry of your husband. His loss to the Society is
  indeed very great. His devotion to the work of this Society endeared
  him to all who knew of his earnest efforts, and his work in its behalf
  has made for him a most enduring monument.

                                        Very truly yours,
                                                        JNO. J. LENEHAN.


The following memorial to the late Major John Crane, prepared by Hon.
Eugene A. Philbin, was also unanimously adopted, and it was voted to
send a copy thereof to the family of Major Crane:


                        MEMORIAL OF JOHN CRANE.


  “It very rarely happens that it is given to a man to be a source of
  inspiration to his fellowmen in more than one phase of human effort. A
  man may, during his life, have given evidence of exalted and
  self-denying patriotism, or have been conspicuous in the great field
  of charity, or an example of the highest type of the successful and
  upright business man, or a great leader in movements for the uplifting
  of mankind, but the average man cannot hope to establish a claim for
  recognition for more than one of these achievements. John Crane,
  however, was entitled to credit for a distinguished career in all. He
  was born in Morgan County, Ohio, on the 10th day of February, 1840.
  His mother died while he was quite young and his father took the
  family to the State of Wisconsin. War was declared between the North
  and South when he had hardly attained manhood, but, with two other
  young men, he organized a company of volunteers and was elected first
  lieutenant. This company offered its services to the governor of the
  State and was assigned to the Sixth Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry. The
  regiment was ordered to the Army of the Potomac, and was incorporated
  with other regiments which were known as the “Iron Brigade,” and as
  such attained great distinction for noteworthy services during the
  war. Mr. Crane served with the Sixth Wisconsin until the winter of
  1862, when he resigned, but only for the purpose of aiding in the
  organization of the Seventeenth Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, an Irish
  regiment which was being raised in that State. He was successful in
  organizing Company A, and became its first lieutenant. This regiment
  in March, 1862, was ordered South, and their first stop was at St.
  Louis, whence they went to Tennessee, arriving at Pittsburgh Landing,
  Tennessee, a couple of days after the Battle of Shiloh. The regiment
  was assigned to the division of General McArthur, with whom it served
  during the campaign, taking part in numerous skirmishes and the Battle
  of Corinth. About this time the Adjutant of the regiment resigned and
  Lieutenant Crane was appointed Adjutant, which position he held until
  the close of the war. Upon the organization of the Seventeenth Army
  Corps, Gen. J. B. McPherson commanding (afterwards killed before
  Atlanta), the regiment became one of the regiments of this Corps,
  taking part in the campaign before the Siege of Vicksburg. They
  participated in the siege, and the regiment, Lieut.-Col. Thomas
  MacMahon commanding, joined with others in making the first assault on
  the breastworks at Vicksburg, May 19, 1863. The regimental officers
  and men were most highly commended by their commanding officer. John
  Crane bore a distinguished part in this assault and was personally
  complimented by the general commanding. The Seventeenth Corps was part
  of the Army of the Tennessee under General Sherman and served in all
  its campaign before Atlanta and on the march to the sea.
  Notwithstanding the fact that John Crane was of a naturally impulsive
  nature, during the battle his ability to command and exercise a
  considerate supervision of his men was never affected. His bravery was
  characterized by unfaltering fearlessness, but never marred by
  recklessness. He remained in the service until the war was concluded.

  “In the year 1868 Mr. Crane engaged in business with Colonel MacMahon,
  to whom reference has been made. Later William A. MacMahon, who served
  in the same regiment, entered the business, which was conducted under
  the name of Crane & MacMahon at the time of Mr. Crane’s death, which
  occurred on April 8, 1908, in New York City. The tie that had been
  formed with the MacMahon brothers in the service was strengthened by
  Mr. Crane’s marriage to their sister in the year 1866. She still
  survives him.

  “From the outset, even when his time was much taken in forming his
  business relations and organizing his affairs, he was deeply and
  practically interested in charity. He commenced then the practice
  which was continued to the end of his life, not only of giving most
  liberally, but also of devoting his time and personal attention to the
  relief of the poor. For many years he was chairman of the finance
  committee of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul and it was largely due
  to his gentle but firm persistency that persons able to do so were
  made to contribute. It was rarely that a meeting of the committee was
  held that there was not some practical suggestion by him towards
  procuring those already interested to take a still greater interest or
  to secure the sympathy of people who had not already contributed in
  the great work. His effort in this important field was never limited
  to satisfying the physical suffering of the moment, but included a
  practical and effective course, having for its end not only the
  provision for pecuniary resources, but the inspiration of new courage
  and hope. The battle always became easier and the prospect more
  hopeful after a visit from John Crane.

             “Careless their merits or their faults to scan,
             His pity gave ere charity began.”

  “Since he carried into business the great elements of character that
  had made him a distinguished and able soldier and was constantly
  inspired by the broad spirit of charity which engendered the desire
  for fair dealing, it was only natural that his efforts should meet
  with success and that he and his associate should attain a position in
  the business world distinguished for an honorable policy and ability
  to produce effective results.

  “The reward which attended his efforts in the great spheres of life,
  to which reference has already been made, caused a deeper appreciation
  of the value of spiritual inspiration. He realized that the battles
  that he had fought on the field of war and in civic life had been won
  because of his reliance not upon man or things, but upon the Supreme
  Being. He took advantage of every opportunity to convey this great
  lesson to his fellowmen. When about ten years before his death
  Governor Roosevelt appointed him a member of the board of trustees of
  the Soldiers’ Home in Steuben County, New York state, he was given an
  opportunity that probably brought him more real gratification than any
  other one thing in his philanthropic career. He organized at the
  Soldiers’ Home religious societies which furnished spiritual
  gratification to the veteran soldiers, and also gave them a new
  occupation that tended to relieve the monotony of institutional life.
  It seemed to him as if he were again, after the lapse of so many
  years, participating with pathetic care and solicitation in the
  careers and welfare of those who, under his guidance, were giving
  their lives to their country. It is not difficult to imagine what this
  opportunity meant to Major Crane. It is needless to say that the duty
  was discharged, not only in a manner that gave happiness to the
  inmates at the time, but also inaugurated methods that were so
  meritorious as to remain permanently to the advantage of the Home.

  “Major Crane never entered actively into politics, although he was a
  man of clear and positive views as to public welfare. From time to
  time he freely lent his voice and aid to movements having for their
  object civic betterment.

  “He was for many years the almoner of the Friendly Sons of St.
  Patrick, and gave the same intelligent and able consideration to the
  appeals made to the Society by the unfortunate as he had given to many
  other cases of distress. He was a most active and faithful member of
  the latter society, and, in fact, was deeply interested in anything
  that concerned the Irish race and furnished evidence of the great
  benefits it had conferred upon mankind.

  “Major Crane was especially interested in American-Irish history
  because of its eloquent testimony in support of Irish virtue and
  ability. His own noble record will always be a bright page in the
  annals of the race in this country.

               “Unbounded courage and compassion join’d,
                 Tempering each other in the victor’s mind,
               Alternately proclaim him good and great,
                 And make the hero and the man complete.”


                      MEMORIAL OF HON. HUGH KELLY.

In the death of Hugh Kelly, President of the corporation of Hugh Kelly &
Co., 79 Wall Street, New York City, the downtown business community of
New York lost a man of sound judgment of men and affairs, and a true
friend.

Mr. Kelly was born in Chicago, September 24th, 1858, and when a year old
came to New York, where he lived thereafter. He was graduated from the
College of the City of New York with high honors and was later honored
with the degrees of Master of Arts and Doctors of Laws by Fordham
University. In 1871 he entered the West Indian trade and in 1884
established the house of Hugh Kelly & Co., which is well-known
throughout the cane sugar world. He was very successful in designing and
constructing several of the largest and most modern sugar cane factories
in Cuba, Porto Rico and Santo Domingo, and was one of the best known
merchants in that industry.

He was president of several sugar companies in the West Indies, but
found time also to devote himself to maritime and municipal affairs, and
was in the directorate of the United Fruit Company, The Emigrant
Industrial Savings Bank, the Nipe Bay Company, and other industrial
enterprises. He was also a Trustee of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, the Roman
Catholic Orphan Asylum, Calvary Cemetery, the Sevilla Home for Children,
and the Central Islip State Hospital.

Mr. Kelly served the city as a member of the Board of Education from
1895 to 1898, and was Treasurer of its Finance Committee.

He was Vice-President of the Maritime Exchange in 1894 and 1895,
President in 1896 and 1897, and for seven years was on its directorate.

Mr. Kelly was made president of The Oriental Bank in an effort to save
it shortly before it failed last Winter. He was a director in the bank
at the time of the financial depression, and when the bank was
threatened Mr. Kelly took up the task, two or three days after his
return from Europe, of realizing on the bank’s assets and meeting the
claims against it. He was going along very well when fresh bank failures
caused a run on the Oriental, which led to its suspension.
Attorney-General Jackson had receivers appointed but they were soon
removed by the Court. Full payment to every depositor was eventually
made through an arrangement with the Metropolitan Trust Company, which
took over the Oriental Bank’s assets. Mr. Kelly in his desire to keep
the bank on its feet when he accepted the presidency refused to accept a
cent of remuneration, his sole desire being to keep the bank going. The
strain under which he labored at that time, and the many false rumors
which those antagonistic to the bank had issued, preyed upon him
greatly, and an acute nervous ailment forced him to give up work three
weeks before his death, which occurred October 30th, 1908, at 3 a. m.

The funeral was held at St. Patrick’s Cathedral on November 2d.
Archbishop Farley celebrated solemn requiem mass. Some of the other
church dignitaries who assisted in the service were Mgr. Lavelle, Mgr.
Hayes, Father McCluskey and Father McQuade.

The pall bearers were Joseph Rigney, Michael E. Bannin, Thomas E.
Murray, Col. John McAnerney, Richard S. Treacy, James H. Post, President
of the National Sugar Refining Company, Joseph W. Foster, Frank
Schaffer, Vice-President of Hugh Kelly & Co., Thomas Mulry, President
Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank and Myles Tierney, President of the
Hudson Trust Company. The interment was in Calvary Cemetery.

Mr. Kelly is survived by his widow, three sons and four daughters.

Personally, Mr. Kelly was a quiet, hearty, genial man, easily
approachable and warm-hearted, seeming to have time for every demand
upon him in spite of his numerous responsibilities, and a host of
friends esteemed him most highly for his ability, integrity and sound
judgment. In the business life of New York in which he moved, he will be
deeply missed.


The following memorial to the late James Jeffrey Roche, Esq., was also
unanimously adopted, and it was voted to send a copy thereof to his
family:

Mr. Joseph Smith of the _Boston Traveler_, one of the founders of the
Society, and at the invitation of its officers, presented the following
memorial to the late Hon. James Jeffrey Roche, LL. D., which was ordered
spread upon the records and a copy thereof sent to the family of Dr.
Roche:

[Illustration:

  JAMES JEFFREY ROCHE, LL. D (Deceased).

  Patriot, Editor, Diplomat and Poet. One of the Founders of our
    Society.
]


                    MEMORIAL OF JAMES JEFFREY ROCHE.

       Under the skies of that brave mountain land,
         Where Alpine shepherds feudal might defied,
       Where struggling freedom warring cent’ries spanned,
         There in the shadows of the hills he died.

       He died as dies some long sweet summer day,
         When fruits are golden on the burdened trees;
       The sun’s pale glory on the sky’s blue gray,
         And night comes fragrant on the cooling breeze.

       They brought him home and laid him down to rest,
         To sleep forever in his narrow bed,
       Amid the scenes and friends that he loved best,
         At rest forever with his sacred dead.
                           JOSEPH SMITH, in the Boston Traveler.

James Jeffrey Roche was born in the little Quaker town of Mountmellick
in Queen’s County, Ireland, the son of Edward and Mary (Doyle) Roche and
was taken while yet an infant of a few weeks, to Prince Edward’s Island,
whither his parents emigrated. He grew up in Charlottetown, where his
father Edward Roche, an accomplished scholar, conducted a school; and he
supplemented the training given him by his scholarly father by a course
at the Jesuit College of St. Dunstan’s in Charlottetown, from which he
was graduated. Among his college classmates were Chief Justice Sullivan
of Prince Edward’s Island and Archbishop O’Brien of Halifax, N. S.

Mr. Roche settled in Boston in 1866 and was engaged in business there
for some years; but his peculiar gifts and tastes drew him to journalism
and letters; and in 1883 he became one of the staff of the _Pilot_,
under his brilliant friend John Boyle O’Reilly; and after his death he
succeeded to the post of editor-in-chief of the paper which he filled
with vigor and brilliancy, in full keeping with the traditions of such
predecessors as Thomas D’Arcy Magee, O’Reilly and others. The _Pilot_
was the avowed champion not only of the Irish people and of their
religion, but it stood ready to do battle with persecution, injustice,
intolerance and wrong, no matter against what race or creed they were
directed; and no individual paper in the world did better or more
effective work for the men and cause of the Irish race; and under the
management of James Jeffrey Roche, zeal and fidelity to all good causes
were always fortified by sanity and justice and tempered by humor, good
temper and a fine inhospitality to passion and demagoguery.

While devoting most of his time and talents to his editorial work and
duty, he still found opportunities to turn to the field of letters of a
more enduring character. A writer of virile and picturesque prose, James
Jeffrey Roche will always be best known as a poet whose verse is marked
by beauty, sweetness, lyrical quality and a _belle esprit_ all his own,
and ranging in scope from the light, brilliant and witty _vers de
société_ to such serious and compelling poems as his “Babylon.” His
“Songs and Satires” is a volume that sparkles with wit and rapier-like
touches. His “Ballads of Blue Water” is a book for American men and
patriots, unique and stirring; the ballads will live while Americans
look back with pride to the deeds of an heroic past; and no American
singer has written any better ballads of action than “The Armstrong
Privateer,” “The Constitution,” “The Alamo” and other stirring songs.
His “Life of John Boyle O’Reilly” was the tribute of a devoted friend
and admirer to a man and comrade he loved and labored with, and is a
biography whose literary excellence is amazing when we consider the
pressure under which it was written. His other prose work varied from
the brilliant accuracy and gravity of “The Story of the Filibusters”
(republished by the Harpers as “The Byways of War”) to those airy
medleys of fun and philosophy “Her Majesty the King” and “The Sorrows of
Sap’ed,” which have made the world laugh and think.

A close personal friend and admirer of President Theodore Roosevelt, he
was appointed by him American Consul at Genoa, Italy, in 1904, when his
health being precarious, a change of work and climate became necessary;
and in 1907 the President transferred him to the capital of Switzerland,
Berne, where he lived until the final call came to him.

When in 1896 I broached to a few interested friends the project of
establishing an organization which would bring together men of the Irish
race interested in gathering and perpetuating the record of the
achievement of that race on this American continent, and preserving it
in such form that historians could utilize it and thus ensure us our
share of the honor and credit of upbuilding the American Republic, I
found him sympathetic and enthusiastic in the matter; and out of those
gatherings and discussions sprang the movement which resulted in the
foundation of the American Irish Historical Society. James Jeffrey
Roche, John Linehan, Hamilton Murray and I drew up the call, signed it,
secured other signatures, called a meeting at the Revere House, Boston,
Mass., 20th January, 1897, and the Society was born. He became one of
the members of the Executive Council and for many years we attended its
meetings and outings until conditions and circumstances stopped our
attendance without attenuating our interest in its progress.

Personally, James Jeffrey Roche was one of the most lovable and charming
of men, who carried under a surface of wit and joyous frivolity a nature
whose depth, sincerity, devotion to ideals, capacity for friendship,
passion for freedom, love of race and motherland, high-minded patriotism
and loyalty to duty and honor, were understood only by those who knew
him intimately. He hated all meanness and dishonor; friendship was a
sacred thing to him; and he had that clairvoyant vision of the poet
which saw the humbug and pharisee under the skin of the charlatan, when
many a reputedly wiser and more sophisticated man accepted the demagogue
and pretender at their own valuation.

I knew him for many years; to me he was as my own flesh and blood; I
could not love a brother more; and his death was merely the final
chapter in the grief I experienced when he went from Boston to represent
the Republic abroad, in such physical condition that I knew I would
never look upon his face again in life; and I know that in voicing my
own sorrow I am but expressing the feelings of those who were comrades
in the past and lovers of him always. He had reached the zenith of his
literary powers before he left the land of his adoption and love
forever; and he himself realized that his work was done, and that only
the official duties of his consular position remained to preoccupy him
until the final call.

Besides a host of friends, he left a wife, a son and a daughter to mourn
his passing; and while the idle reader of contemporary literature may
time and again derive pleasure and profit from his joyous wit, and
gentle philosophy, his intimates and brothers in soul will seldom meet
without recalling with a hush and a sigh the friend and comrade who has
passed and who awaits them where work and worry, sweat and sorrow, are
no more forever.

He was buried in Holyhood Cemetery, Brookline, Mass., within a stone’s
throw of the spot where sleep his comrades in the flesh, John Boyle
O’Reilly, Thomas J. Gargan and Patrick A. Collins, his grave marked by a
handsome granite column adorned with a bronze tablet, erected by a group
of friends who loved him in life and mourn him in death. May he sleep in
peace; for no gentler, sweeter spirit was ever added to the company of
Heaven than James Jeffrey Roche.


The following list of applicants for membership in the Society was read
by the secretary-general, and by unanimous vote they were duly elected
members:

John J. Kenney, New Brighton, Staten Island, N. Y. (proposed by J. J.
Lenehan).

William Gilbert Davies, 32 Nassau Street, New York City (proposed by J.
J. Lenehan).

Martin Hughes, Hibbing, Minn, (proposed by Hon. C. D. O’Brien).

Patrick F. McBreen, 404 Munroe Street, Brooklyn, N. Y. (proposed by J.
J. Lenehan).

Thomas Murphy, Irvington-on-Hudson, New York (proposed by Francis J.
Quinlan, M. D.).

Dr. Thomas E. Dolan, 250 Elizabeth Avenue, Elizabeth, N. J. (proposed by
James L. O’Neil).

Jeremiah D. Leary, 246 Clark Place, Elizabeth, N. J. (proposed by James
L. O’Neil).

Rev. Cornelius F. O’Leary, Wellston, St. Louis, Mo. (proposed by Michael
J. Jordan).

Frank L. Tooley, D. D. S., 157 East 79th Street, New York City (proposed
by J. J. Lenehan).

Martin I. J. Griffin, 1935 North 11th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
(proposed by J. J. Lenehan).

John C. McGuire, Hotel St. George, Brooklyn, N. Y. (proposed by J. J.
Lenehan).

Rev. Thomas J. McCarty, 1011 Douglas Street, Sioux City, Iowa (proposed
by Bishop P. J. Garrigan).

William J. Delaney, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

Patrick L. Hughes, 1 Blackstone Street, Boston, Mass.

Edgar Stanton Maclay, Standard Union, Brooklyn, N. Y. (proposed by
Thomas Z. Lee).

Michael W. Norton, Narragansett Hotel, Providence, R. I.

Dr. John P. Reilly, 215 Elizabeth Avenue, Elizabeth, N. J. (proposed by
James L. O’Neil).

Joseph F. McLoughlin, attorney-at-law, 2 Rector Street, New York City
(proposed by T. Vincent Butler).

Peter J. Dufficy, 120 West 59th Street, New York City (proposed by T.
Vincent Butler).

Joseph Murray, 1245 Madison Avenue, New York City (proposed by Edmond J.
Curry).

Rev. James J. Murphy, Ph. D., 1011 Douglas Street, Sioux City, Iowa
(proposed by Bishop P. J. Garrigan).

J. C. Delaney, Department of Factory Inspection, Harrisburg, Pa.
(proposed by Francis J. Quinlan, M. D.).

Peter J. Gibbons, M. D., 49 Park Avenue, New York City (proposed by
Francis J. Quinlan, M. D.).

Charles J. Perry, World Building, Park Row, New York City (proposed by
J. J. Lenehan).

William T. A. Fitzgerald, Court House, Boston, Mass. (proposed by James
H. Devlin, Jr.; seconded by Michael J. Jordan).

Edward Hamilton Daly, 54 Wall Street, New York City (proposed by T.
Vincent Butler).

John B. White, 121 East 86th Street, New York City (proposed by T.
Vincent Butler).

Edward D. Farrell, 158 West 125th Street, New York City (proposed by T.
Vincent Butler).

Col. P. J. Nevins, Haverhill, Mass, (proposed by J. J. Lenehan).

William F. Downey, 1622 L Street, Washington, D. C. (proposed by J. J.
Lenehan).

Richard J. Donovan, 170 Broadway, New York City (proposed by Francis J.
Quinlan, M. D.).

John E. McGuire, Haverhill, Mass, (proposed by Dr. M. F. Sullivan).

Constantine J. McGuire, 120 East 60th Street, New York City (proposed by
Francis J. Quinlan, M. D.).

Jeremiah A. O’Leary, 38 Park Row, Manhattan, New York (proposed by John
J. Daly).

Gen. Michael Kerwin, Broadway Central Hotel, New York City (proposed by
Francis J. Quinlan, M. D.).

Edward Tingent, 68 Broad Street, Elizabeth, N. J. (proposed by Francis
J. Quinlan, M. D.).

James P. Conway, 296 East 3rd Street, Brooklyn, N. Y. (proposed by John
J. Daly).

Leo F. Farrell, 171 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I. (proposed by
Francis I. McCanna).

Dennis A. Spellissy, 302 Broadway, New York City (proposed by J. J.
Lenehan).

Rev. John Brosnan, Cornwall-on-Hudson, New York (proposed by J. J.
Lenehan).

Peter L. Keough, 41 Arch Street, Pawtucket, R. I. (proposed by John T.
F. MacDonnell).

John E. Murphy, Bretton Hall Hotel, New York City (proposed by John E.
O’Brien).

Rev. William A. Keefe, Norwich, Conn. (proposed by Edmond J. Curry).

Michael W. Sullivan, Century Building, Washington, D. C. (proposed by
David Healy).

Joseph E. G. Ryan, Chicago Inter Ocean, Chicago, Ill. (proposed by Frank
S. Colton).

William Gilshenan, New York City (proposed by T. P. Kelly).

Rev. M. A. McManus, Newark, N. J.

Thomas F. Kilkenny, Providence, R. I. (proposed by M. W. Norton;
seconded by John F. O’Connell).

Thomas F. Mulry, president Immigrants’ Savings Bank, Brooklyn, N. Y.
(proposed by M. E. Bannin).

Hon. Lawrence P. Lee, Ellis Island, N. Y. (proposed by Thomas Z. Lee).

John Woods, 297 Broadway, South Boston, Mass. (proposed by Michael
Maynes; seconded by Michael J. Jordan).

John Howlett, 49 Portland Street, Boston, Mass. (proposed by Michael
Maynes; seconded by Michael J. Jordan).

M. J. Sheehy, merchant, Foot 39th Street, New York City (proposed by
Henry L. Joyce; seconded by John F. O’Connell).

[Illustration:

  PETER FENELON COLLIER.

  Late Editor and Publisher of Collier’s Weekly. Deceased April, 1909.
]

James C. Shannon, vice-president David Shannon Company, New York City
(proposed by Henry L. Joyce; seconded by John F. O’Connell).

William C. Burke, contractor, 143 Liberty Street, New York City
(proposed by Henry L. Joyce; seconded by John F. O’Connell).

James F. Mack, attorney-at-law, New York City (proposed by Henry L.
Joyce; seconded by John F. O’Connell).

Joseph Rowan, attorney-at-law, New York City (proposed by Henry L.
Joyce; seconded by John F. O’Connell).

John L. Murray, 223 West 42d Street, New York City (proposed by M. H.
Cox; seconded by Bernard J. Joyce).

Major Thomas F. Lynch, United States Army Building, Whitehead Street,
New York City (proposed by John J. Daly).

Daniel S. Mahoney, 131 Charles Street and 277 Broadway, New York City
(proposed by John J. Daly).

Charles B. O’Connor, New York State Construction Company, Broad Street,
New York City (proposed by John J. Daly).

Frank T. Molony, 70 Jane Street and 277 Broadway, New York City
(proposed by John J. Daly).

Joseph T. Ryan, 149 Broadway, New York City (proposed by Henry L.
Joyce).

Patrick J. Haltigan, editor _Hibernian_, Washington, D. C.

Stephen McFarland, 44 Morton Street, New York City (proposed by John Jay
Joyce).

Stephen McPartland, 134 W. 92d Street, New York City (proposed by H. G.
Bannon).

Stephen J. McPartland, 391 West End Ave., New York City (proposed by H.
G. Bannon).

P. J. Nee, 1341 Girard Street, Washington, D. C.

John J. Buckley, 99 Nassau Street, New York City (proposed by John J.
Daly).


In addition to the above, Ernest Van D. Murphy, first lieutenant,
Twenty-Seventh Infantry, United States Army, Havana, Cuba, was elected a
life member of the Society.

Mr. Michael F. Dooley, Treasurer-General of the Society, presented the
following report, covering the period from January 28, 1908, to January
15, 1909, and the same was adopted by unanimous vote:

                                    PROVIDENCE, R. I., January 15, 1909.

                   AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

 Amount on hand at last report, January
   28, 1908                                                    $2,003.05

                                            RECEIPTS.
   1908.
 Feb.      Received on account of N. Y.
             dinner                                    $297.00
 Feb.      Membership fees                              105.00
 March     Membership fees                              100.00
 May       Membership fees                              180.00
 June      Membership fees                               35.00
 July      Membership fees                              280.00
 Aug.      Membership fees                              285.00
 Sept.     Membership fees                              280.00
 Oct.      Membership fees                              520.00
 Nov.      Membership fees                              500.00
 Dec.      Membership fees                              520.00
 Dec.      From Western News Co., for one
             Journal                                      2.00
 Dec.      From Secretary-General,
             contribution for Sullivan
             Memorial Tablet dedication                 112.00

   1909.
 Jan.      Membership fees                              230.00
           Interest from bank                            29.19
                                                     ————————— $3,475.19
                                                               —————————
                   Total receipts                              $5,478.24

                                       DISBURSEMENTS.
   1908.
 Feb.   4. Jas. J. Armstrong, quartet at
             New York banquet                           $30.00
 Feb.   7. T. P. Kelly, expenses at New
             York banquet                               352.57
 Feb.  17. T. H. Murray, salary and
             postage                                     55.00
 Feb.  28. Rumford Printing Company                      24.50
 Feb.  29. Anna M. Burns, clerical work                   8.00
 Feb.  29. T. H. Murray, postage                          5.00
 March 16. T. H. Murray, salary and
             clerical assistance                         60.00
 March 25. T. H. Murray, postage                          5.00
 April  9. T. H. Murray, clerical
             assistance                                  16.00
 April 29. T. H. Murray, salary and
             postage                                     55.00
 May   16. T. H. Murray, salary and
             postage                                     62.00
 June  10. Mrs. T. H. Murray, expense for
             two years, messenger,
             telephone, telephone tolls
             and postoffice expenses in
             forwarding mail                            168.00
 June  17. Geo. H. Chandler, funeral
             expenses, Thos. H. Murray                  307.15
 June  17. Michael J. Jordan, expenses at
             funeral T. H. Murray                        15.47
 Nov.   6. Michael J. Jordan, carriage
             hire at funeral T. H. Murray                 5.00
 June  18. Mrs. Murray, salary                           50.00
 July  11. Mrs. Murray, salary                           12.00
 July  11. Gerry & Murray, supplies                       4.00
 July  11. Thos. Groom & Co., supplies                    2.95
 July  18. Livermore & Knight Co.,
             stationery for
             Treasurer-General                            3.50
 July  18. Mrs. Murray, salary, postage
             and telephones                              67.45
 July  24. Postage, Treasurer-General                     2.00
 July  24. Rumford Printing Company,
             printing of year book                      679.49
 July  24. Rumford Printing Company,
             general printing                            10.81
 July  29. A. W. Lang, stationery for
             Treasurer-General                            7.50
 Aug.  13. Mrs. Murray, postage                          10.00
 Aug.  19. Mrs. Murray, salary and
             telephone                                   55.00
 Sept.  1. Rhode Island Printing Company,
             circular letters                            14.60
 Sept. 10. Thos. Groom & Co., supplies                     .75
 Sept. 10. Rumford Printing Company,
             general printing                             6.32
 Sept. 10. Postage, Treasurer-General                     1.00
 Sept. 17. Mrs. Murray, salary, postage,
             telephone and other expenses                64.80
 Oct.  10. Express on box from Mrs. Murray                 .60
 Oct.  17. Mrs. Murray, salary, postage
             and telephone                               60.00
 Oct.  23. Postage for Treasurer-General                  1.00
 Oct.  27. M. J. Jordan, expense incurred
             at Mr. Gargan’s funeral                     46.75
 Nov.   7. Snow & Farnham Company,
             printing, Secretary-General                  9.98
 Nov.   7. Snow & Farnham Company, postage
             stamps and envelopes                        40.00
 Nov.  13. John J. Lenehan, expenses
             incurred as chairman
             membership committee                        28.78
 Nov.  13. John J. Lenehan, printing bills
             for membership committee                   100.90
 Nov.  13. Mrs. Murray, salary, postage,
             messenger and telephones                    63.00
 Nov.  21. Remington Printing Company,
             general printing for
             Secretary-General                            4.75
 Nov.  28. John J. Lenehan, expenses
             incurred by membership
             committee                                   74.10
 Dec.   2. Thos. Z. Lee, expense incurred
             as Secretary-General                        20.26
 Dec.  15. Mrs. Murray, salary, postage
             and telephone, etc.                         59.00
 Dec.  18. Postage, Treasurer-General                     1.00
 Dec.  18. David B. Hall, lunch in
             connection with dedication of
             Sullivan Memorial Tablet                   109.80
 Jan.   8. John J. Lenehan, committee on
             new members, clerical help                  28.00
 Jan.   8. John J. Lenehan, committee on
             new members, postage                        15.00
 Jan.   8. Preston & Rounds Company,
             record book for members’ dues                1.00
 Jan.  14. Thos. Z. Lee, typewriter and
             table for Secretary-General                 99.50
 Jan.  14. Snow & Farnham Company, general
             printing for
             Secretary-General                           43.85
 Jan.  14. Snow & Farnham Company, general
             printing Secretary-General                  51.20
 Jan.  14. Services of stenographer
             reporting in typewriting
             dedication exercises Sullivan
             Memorial Tablet                             20.00
           Exchange charges on checks                      .40
                                                     ————————— $3,309.73
           Balance in National Exchange
             Bank                                               2,438.51
                                                               —————————
                                                               $5,478.34

                 SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

               From January 28, 1908, to January 15, 1909.

                                RECEIPTS.

 Balance on hand January 28, 1908                              $2,003.05
 Received from membership fees, old
   members                                           $2,220.00
 Received from old member life membership
   fee                                                   50.00
 Received from new members annual fees                  515.00
 Received from new members, life
   membership fees                                      250.00
 On account of New York dinner                          297.00
 For one Journal                                          2.00
 Special contributions for Sullivan
   Memorial Tablet dedication exercises                $112.00
 Interest from bank                                      29.19
                                                     ————————— $3,475.19
              Total receipts                                   $5,478.34

                             DISBURSEMENTS.

 Salary secretary                                      $550.00
 Printing Year Book                                     679.49
 Balance on New York dinner                             382.57
 Funeral expenses of Secretary Murray                   327.62
 Expenses incurred at Mr. Gargan’s funeral               46.75
 Lunch on occasion of dedication of
   Sullivan Memorial Tablet                             109.80
 Expenses of Membership Committee                       246.78
 Expenses of Treasurer-General:
           Stationery                         $11.00
           Postage                              5.00
           Book                                 1.00
           Exchange                              .40
                                           —————————     17.40

 Expenses of Secretary-General Thos. Z.
   Lee:
           Typewriter and table               $99.50
           Printing                           109.78
           Postage                             40.00
           General expenses                    20.26
                                           —————————    269.54

 Stenographer, special report Sullivan
   Tablet Dedication
           Exercises                                     20.00

 Expenses Secretary-General’s office, Mrs.
   Murray:
           Boston postoffice forwarding
             mail                              $6.00
           Express                              2.40
           Clerical help                       34.00
           Supplies                             7.70
           Printing                            56.23
           Postage                             88.00
           Telephone                           67.45
           Telephone tolls                     60.00
           Messenger                           68.00
                                           —————————             $389.78

 Balance in National Exchange Bank,
   Providence, R. I., January 15, 1909                         $2,438.51
                                                               —————————
                                                               $5,478.24

            PERMANENT FUND AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

 1909
 Jan. 15.  Amount of deposit with the
             National Exchange Bank,
             Providence, R. I.                                   $127.56

A motion was made that the next annual meeting of the Society be held in
New York City, at a time and place to be later appointed, and after some
discussion the motion prevailed.

The meeting thereupon adjourned.

  ATTEST:

                                    THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
                                                    _Secretary-General_.

[Illustration:

  MICHAEL FRANCIS COX, M. D., F. R. C. P. I., M. R. I. A., 26 Merrion
    Square, Dublin.

  Vice-President for the Society for Ireland.
]




 ELEVENTH ANNUAL BANQUET OF THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.


  WASHINGTON, D. C., January 16, 1909.

The Eleventh Annual Banquet of the American Irish Historical Society
took place this evening at 7.30 in the magnificent banquet hall on the
tenth floor of the Hotel Raleigh, and over two hundred members and
guests were present. The arrangement of the tables, floral decorations
and candelabra was commendable, and was a great credit to the efforts of
the Dinner Committee.

President-General Quinlan presided and acted as toastmaster for the
evening.

With him at the head table were seated: Hon. Edward D. White, Justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States; Hon. Thomas H. Carter, United
States Senator from Montana; Hon. Robert J. Gamble, United States
Senator from South Dakota; Hon. Joseph A. O’Connell, Congressman from
Massachusetts; Hon. William Sulzer, Congressman from New York; Hon. John
J. Fitzgerald, Congressman from New York; Hon. Michael F. Dooley of
Rhode Island, Treasurer-General; Rear Admiral John McGowan of
Washington, former President-General; Mr. Francis I. McCanna of Rhode
Island; Hon. John D. Crimmins of New York, former President-General;
Hon. Patrick J. McCarthy, Vice-President for Rhode Island; Hon. Victor
J. Dowling, Justice of the Supreme Court of New York; Mr. Patrick Carter
of Rhode Island; Hon. Edward A. Moseley of Washington, former
President-General; Mr. David S. Barry of Washington; Hon. Maurice T.
Moloney of Illinois; Rev. M. A. Quirk of Illinois; Mr. Michael H. Cox of
Massachusetts; Mr. W. J. O’Hagan, Vice-President for South Carolina;
Hon. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick of Massachusetts; Hon. Lawrence O. Murray of
Washington; Mr. Bernard J. Joyce of Massachusetts; Hon. John F.
O’Connell of Rhode Island; Hon. John Hannan of New York; Mr. Humphrey
O’Sullivan of Massachusetts; Rev. Michael A. McManus of New Jersey;
General D. F. Collins of New Jersey; Mr. Michael J. Jordan,
Vice-President for Massachusetts; Mr. John L. Murray of New York; Mr.
Patrick J. Haltigan of Washington; and Mr. Thomas Zanslaur Lee,
Secretary-General of the Society.

The press was represented by the following gentlemen: Jerome S.
Fanciulli, Associated Press; John Monk, _New York Sun_; A. P. Arnold,
United Press Association; David S. Barry, _Providence Journal_; J. W.
Bathon, _Washington Post_; Archie Jamieson, _Washington Herald_; James
R. Quirk, _Washington Times_; and W. H. Landvorgt, _Washington Star_.

Divine blessing was invoked by Rev. Dr. Joshua P. L. Bodfish of Canton,
Mass., after which a flashlight picture of the assemblage was
successfully taken by the National Press Association of No. 1423 F
Street, Washington, for the benefit of those who wished a photographic
souvenir of the occasion.


The menu, which was finely served, was as follows:

                                Martinis

                               Lynnhavens

                           Clear Green Turtle

                              AMONTILLADO
         Celery                Salted Almonds          Pim-Olas

                    Medallion of Bass a la Marguery
                             CHATEAU PERRON
                           Pommes a l’Etoile

                         Sweetbreads a la Conti
                              PONTET CANET
                              Petits Pois

                      Fresh Mushrooms sous cloche

                           Sorbet Renaissance

                        Quail Piquee sur Canape
                               CHAMPAGNE
                             Salade Romaine

      Biscuit Tortoni                                Petits Fours

                               Camembert

                               Cafe Noir

  White Rock                                     Cigars and Cigarettes

After substantial justice had been done every part of the dinner, the
President-General asked for attention and said:


  “_Ladies and Gentlemen, as well as Honored Guests of the American
  Irish Historical Society_: If I feel somewhat overawed, somewhat
  oppressed, by the consciousness of standing in the place formerly
  occupied by a man of such national, nay, international, reputation as
  the President-General whom I succeed, all the more is it incumbent
  upon me on this occasion to take my duty very seriously, and endeavor
  to discuss with the sobriety and earnestness appropriate to one of my
  profession the aims which this organization has in view, and the
  things to be sought after or avoided in prosecuting those aims.

  “Let me call your attention, particularly the attention of the many
  new acquisitions whom I am so happy to see here tonight, to the five
  words which form the motto upon our corporate seal: ‘_That the world
  may know._’ The interpretation put upon that legend by another former
  President-General, Thomas J. Gargan, of whom I must speak later on,
  was this: ‘To place the Irish element in its true light in American
  history.’ It is not necessary to warn you, at this stage of our
  existence as a body, that the American Irish Historical Society does
  not live either to pick holes in the coats of others or to trail its
  own coat over the sod by way of challenge. Rather, I may say, the
  purpose of our organization is defensive; to employ the armory of
  historical truth in vindicating for men of Irish blood that place in
  American history of which it has been defrauded either wilfully or
  through ignorance. Many causes have contributed to create
  misrepresentation on the one hand and honest misconception on the
  other. We need not discuss these causes in detail just at present. I
  am here to deliver a general address and not a special lecture in
  history. But we all know, and every well-informed American is aware,
  that the ignorant and the vulgar not so very long ago had but two
  well-defined ideas about Irishmen: One, that they wore red whiskers
  and carried hods; the other, that they loved a fight. The former of
  these errors we strive to dissipate—and I think we have succeeded
  notably—by the very fact of the Society’s existence and by the
  publication of the annual journal with its roster of membership. As to
  the latter, we are not, I fear, in a position to deny it without some
  reserve. It may, however, be fairly claimed that this Society has
  already done much to proclaim its sympathy with the arts of peace in
  electing a member of my profession to be the immediate successor of
  such a man as Admiral McGowan.

  “So far to establish what I take to be the solid reasons which justify
  the existence of such a society as ours. Now let me call your
  attention to an absolutely indispensable condition of our success in
  the future, as it has been, I think, one great factor of our success
  in the past. It is our aim to make better known the Irish pages of
  American history. These pages do not refer, let us remember, to any
  one section, type, class or creed of Irish-descended Americans, but to
  all without discrimination. And this function of our Society evidently
  will never be, could never have been, effectively discharged without a
  hearty collective effort to sink all differences of religious belief
  and of political connections. We must continue to act, within our own
  body and in pursuit of our common object, independently of those
  sectional, religious or political ties which bind us individually as
  loyal citizens and as sincere Christians. From the days of Brian Boru
  and of Dermot McMorough down to our own time we know that that little
  isle where grows the ‘chosen leaf of bard and chief’ has been a prey
  to the invader only because the invader knew how to foment dissension
  among its native sons. Gentlemen, this essential quality of our
  organization is both forcibly and happily borne in upon us in these
  days when we hear that the land of our fathers is at last beginning to
  assert its power as a political unit by realizing that very idea of
  being ‘Irish first,’ that idea of national unity, her neglect of which
  has been the comfort of her enemies in times past.

  “Their proneness to dissension has been more or less facetiously
  accounted for by the theory that the Irish are a nervously high-strung
  race, who find a pleasant counter-irritant in the ‘man-enobling
  conflict.’ It has been said that an Irishman would rather fight
  another Irishman than a man of alien race, simply because he
  recognizes in an antagonist of his own blood the most promising
  opportunity of a truly exciting battle.

  “The memory is still fresh upon me of that important event at which I
  had the honor of assisting on the 16th of last month, the unveiling of
  the beautiful tablet placed in the State House at Providence, Rhode
  Island, to the glorious memory of Major-General John Sullivan of
  Revolutionary fame. We all know that this splendid and public-spirited
  memorial is one of the achievements of the past year on which our
  Society has reason to congratulate itself. Let the still fresh memory
  of that proud occasion be my excuse for dwelling at such great length
  upon the warlike qualities of the Irish race. For these qualities, in
  truth, are quite generally admitted by both friends and enemies. Our
  more pressing call, it seems, is to emphasize the achievements of the
  Irish race in peace. After listening to those eloquent tributes in the
  Providence State House from the lips of Governor Higgins, Ex-Governor
  Lippitt and others, it was borne in upon me how easily a public man’s
  peaceful achievements may be eclipsed by his military exploits. John
  Sullivan was, as our tablet records, a statesman of distinction; as a
  jurist he left his mark upon the legal history of New Hampshire, and
  yet it is almost exclusively as the patriot soldier that he lives
  today in the popular mind.

  “Another hero of the American Revolution whose memory we must tonight
  recall with especial satisfaction was Commodore John Barry. We have
  the right, gentlemen, and I think that we should insist upon it
  strenuously in these days, to call Barry the Irish father of that
  splendid American navy of which we are all so justly proud. And it is
  matter for congratulation that, since our last annual meeting, and
  largely through our own organized efforts, historical justice is now
  at last to be done to the man who was a commissioned Captain in the
  American navy when Paul Jones was only a Lieutenant. A prominent site
  has been officially chosen for a statue of Barry at the national
  capitol, and we have every reason to hope that the work will be
  executed by some sculptor of great repute of Irish descent.

  “But, proud as we must all feel of Irish services to the Republic ‘on
  the decks of fame’ and on many a stricken field, is it not rather our
  duty as an organization to shed the light of history upon Irish
  services in the council chamber and the law court, in science and
  scholarship, and the fine arts? In the retrospect of the year that is
  gone, what Irish-descended American can fail to thrill with pride at
  the spectacle of that distinguished and at the same time enthusiastic
  assembly which paid honor to the memory of Augustus St. Gaudens, a
  native of Dublin, and the foremost American sculptor of our own day?

  “And in this retrospect we have to include at least one example of the
  type of Irish descendant which rises to eminence in the peaceful
  professions in our late-lamented and highly-respected
  President-General, Thomas J. Gargan, whose obsequies in Boston last
  fall were the occasion of so impressive a manifestation of civic
  gratitude and esteem. Surely his life was in itself a powerful effort
  to ‘place the Irish element in its true light in American history.’
  Eminent in the legal profession in a community where the standards of
  that profession are especially high, he also gave to the state of
  Massachusetts as a trusted official such services as were duly
  acknowledged by the presence in his funeral cortege of the Mayor of
  Boston, the present and past Governors of Massachusetts, and an
  immense multitude of citizens. And if this great lawyer’s career
  brilliantly illustrated the truth that the Irish race excel in other
  things besides fighting I must not pass over in silence that other
  departed fellow-member, Major John Crane of New York, a man whose
  career was illustrious both in war and in peace, a citizen who first
  turned his back upon commercial success in order to take up arms for
  what he considered the cause of the Republic, and then, when he had
  won glory for himself in four years of active military service,
  returned to the peaceful pursuits of commerce to achieve a place among
  the leading merchants of New York, and at last to dispense his
  honorably-acquired wealth and to apply his talents and his time in the
  charitable relief of poverty and suffering.

  “I have purposely left to the end of this retrospect my sincere
  tribute to the memory of that man whose death, coming in the interval
  since our last annual meeting, has been a peculiar loss to us as a
  body. In addressing you two years ago, my distinguished predecessor,
  Admiral McGowan, said, referring to our then Secretary, Thomas
  Hamilton Murray: ‘A competent secretary is a priceless possession for
  any society, and we have been especially fortunate in this respect.’
  The distinguished Admiral was speaking in the presence of Mr. Murray
  when he uttered those words. What may we not add now that death has
  removed the restraints imposed in such circumstances by modesty and
  good taste. Thomas Hamilton Murray was indeed a man to whom the
  American Irish will forever owe a debt of gratitude for his work along
  that line which we, as a society, have especially taken for our own.
  He was a journalist by profession, an ornament, I may say, to American
  journalism, as so many good American Irish have been; and before this
  Society had come into existence he had already anticipated its aims,
  by rendering out of his own initiative and his own exertions no
  insignificant service toward placing the Irish element in its true
  light in American history. From its very inauguration our Society was
  aware that no other man in all the length and breadth of this country
  could have held his position with so much advantage to the cause which
  we have at heart. To say nothing of that which many of us must feel in
  the removal of a dear friend, the Society cannot but be conscious of
  the calamity it has sustained in the loss of this truly ‘priceless
  possession’ to whom our rapid success in the past has been so largely
  due.

[Illustration:

  MICHAEL J. JORDAN.

  Of Boston, Mass.

  Vice-President of the Society for Massachusetts.
]

  “In the year that has passed our Society has singularly suffered from
  the loss of many of its ardent and enthusiastic workers. These
  pioneers of our organization have been summoned from our midst, but
  the heritage they have left is beyond measure or computation. Their
  memory will always be fragrant with the sweetness of their lives, and,
  whilst we chant their requiem, may they enjoy the hosannas that are
  sung for them in their happier abode.

  “Coming now to the actual aspect of our life as an organization, we
  may congratulate ourselves, I rejoice to say, upon a thoroughly sound
  and vigorous condition. Most especially would I single out for mention
  the astonishing success of our new membership committee. That
  committee, under the chairmanship of Mr. John J. Linehan, was
  appointed in New York City, I need hardly remind you, scarcely two
  months ago, with the object of promoting the numerical increase of our
  membership, while of course taking due care that its quality should
  not fall below the standard which we had thus far maintained. So
  zealously and efficiently has the work of the committee been done, so
  just and cordial has been the appreciation of the Society’s aims, that
  within one month 125 new and good names were added to our roster, and
  the total increment, I believe, since the appointment of the
  committee, amounts at the present moment to something over 200. I am
  sure that we all heartily welcome these new recruits, and in voicing
  that welcome let me express the hope that every man of the new squad
  intends to do his utmost for the furtherance of our great aims.

  “To do this, gentlemen, no mere machine action of the Society will be
  adequate. Our work is, remember, a work of enlightenment, therefore a
  work dealing with the intellect of our times and our country, and not
  to be accomplished without intellectual exertion. Now while societies,
  academies and universities have their immense value as a directive and
  unifying apparatus, the intellectual forces which operate under their
  control must of necessity be individual. To be effectual all effort
  must be controlled by system, but the most perfect system without an
  abundance of individual effort must be like an elaborately-constructed
  piece of artillery without a sufficient supply of ammunition.

  “Our system has now been elaborated by the inauguration of the
  _Recorder_, to be published at stated periods and which will serve as
  a vehicle for such notices on topics of American Irish history as the
  zeal and enterprise of individual members may prompt. It is
  confidentially hoped that the supply of such material will be both
  abundant and rich in quality, and that our _Recorder_ will become in
  itself a valuable magazine of information in those lines of research
  which are the Society’s special province.

  “Let me even urge on members the advantage to our cause that would be
  attained if every one of us will make a point of forwarding to the
  Secretary-General, Judge Lee, who has assumed, in addition to the many
  exacting duties of his present office, that of editor of our
  _Recorder_, any newspaper clippings or other material concerning
  contemporary happenings relating to our work.

  “Finally, gentlemen, it is in no perfunctory spirit that I here
  publicly render thanks to the members of our official staff, without
  whose zealous coöperation our year could not have been brought to the
  happy and glorious conclusion in which we rejoice tonight. Since the
  death of our beloved Secretary-General six months ago Judge Thomas Z.
  Lee of Rhode Island has fulfilled in large measure the colossal duties
  of that office, and to whom the Society owes more than mere words of
  thanks. With him I associate in my heartfelt gratitude our esteemed
  and respected Treasurer-General, Mr. Michael F. Dooley, whose devotion
  to our work and our interests has been, I may say without
  exaggeration, heroic. And, gentlemen, I must not conclude without
  expressing in both my own behalf and that of the Society as a whole
  those thanks which are fairly due to the various committees who have
  so successfully carried out the work of organizing this meeting. I
  hold that the manner in which that labor of love has been performed
  has been in itself a very positive demonstration of the faculty of
  concerted action which belongs to our race, at least on this side of
  the Atlantic, if not everywhere and always. And now I conclude with my
  personal thanks to all who are here tonight, especially the ladies,
  who have given a fine atmosphere to this occasion and without whose
  hearty and sympathetic countenances our gathering could not have been,
  as I am confident it will be, a memorable one in the history of the
  American Irish Historical Society.”


HON. PATRICK J. MCCARTHY: “Rhode Island proposes three cheers for the
ladies.”

This suggestion met with a hearty response, and was quickly followed by
similar proposals from representatives of Boston and New York.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: The first toast on the program is “The
President of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt.”

This was drunk standing and was followed by three ringing cheers. The
orchestra then played “The Star Spangled Banner,” which was sung by the
assemblage.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: We will now turn to the serious aspect of
this page in our history. This evening we are especially honored, ladies
and gentlemen, by having at this table one of the most distinguished
men, not only in the United States, but in the world. Without further
ado, without further expression, because it is like carrying coals to
Newcastle, I will go on and introduce to you Hon. Edward D. White,
Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States of America.

Mr. Justice White was greeted with hearty applause and cheering as he
arose, and, after order was restored, he spoke as follows:


  “_Mr. President-General, Gentlemen of the American Irish Historical
  Society, Ladies and Gentlemen_: When the privilege was extended to me
  of coming here tonight there was also a request which was by me
  declined, to respond to one of the set toasts. This was done because
  it has been my wont since taking up judicial duty in Washington to
  eschew as far as I could public speech-making, because the thought has
  always been mine that if public speech-making were indulged in, even
  occasionally, the habit might grow and thus I might become what it
  seems to me is an abomination—a too loquacious and indiscreet
  speech-making judge. Strange as it may seem to any of you who have had
  to go over ponderous judicial opinions, the result of judicial work is
  to cause one to hesitate about words. They come to the one who does
  such work to be things which may be productive of great wrong if
  misused or misapplied. True as this is as to judicial work generally,
  it is more so when the character of that work in our own country is
  considered. Under our system judicial duty is not confined to the
  settlement of controversies between men. It is more extensive, since
  it controls man in his relations to government and the relations of
  government to the individual. It involves the power to limit
  government itself, since upon it is cast the ultimate duty to maintain
  the Constitution and apply its limitations. It, therefore, in a sense
  not only restrains both the national and State governments, but
  regulates their relations one to the other. From this all-embracing
  extent of the judicial authority it must be apparent that in our own
  country much more than in any other the discharge of judicial duty
  involves the dealing with subjects of the most acute public concern,
  where passion and political agitation are flagrant. When these things
  are considered it is certain that the performance of the judicial
  function in our country—to paraphrase the words of the Romans—involves
  the science of all things human and divine, the knowledge of all
  things good and evil.

  “With these thoughts in my mind I stand up upon the generous
  solicitation of your President and look into your kindly faces and
  form the purpose to say a few words concerning your and my duty to
  preserve the institutions of government with which we are blest, and
  with the thought comes the admonition that I must be circumspect and
  say nothing which ought not to be said. Indeed, as I speak, there
  comes unbidden to my mind that beautiful prayer of the Catholic
  Liturgy where the Priest, as he approaches the Gospel, invokes the aid
  of Almighty God to cleanse his mouth as with a living coal in order
  that his lips may be worthy to syllable the inspired subject which he
  is about to approach.

  “Before I say anything further, however, let me briefly establish my
  right to be among you tonight upon a more intimate basis than that of
  a mere guest. This can hardly be done because of my being an Irish
  American, for I am only of Irish blood on my father’s side in the
  fourth generation. But my right to be one of you from another point of
  view is quite apparent. In the state in which I was born there lived
  an Irish American bearing the name of White. At a public dinner—I do
  not believe it was an Irish American affair—he sat near one whose name
  was O’Rourke. Leaning over to him he said: ‘Mr. O’Rourke, what
  countryman are you?’ ‘What countryman?’ said O’Rourke. ‘I am an
  Irishman. Why do you ask me?’ ‘Because I thought from your name you
  might be a Frenchman,’ was the reply. Quick came the retort: ‘That is
  more than I can think of you, for I can kick a White out of every sod
  in Ireland.’

  “But there is a deeper claim than mere name on my part to be one of
  you, since going back over my whole life from the time when I sat as a
  boy learning to read out of a primer, down to this night, I can look
  back to nothing of joy or sorrow, of success or failure, where some
  Irish American friend did not stand near me aiding in the realization
  or accomplishment of the one or sustaining and supporting in
  submission to the other.

  “When the French Republic was born some one asked a great French
  orator to prove its existence. He said: ‘The Republic is like the sun;
  blind is he who sees it not.’ And so tonight I shall not attempt to
  recount the many and priceless services from the days of the
  Revolution to this time which the Irish American has rendered to the
  upbuilding of this great and free country which we possess and enjoy.
  Why should this be done, since their services shine down the pathway
  of our national life with an effulgence so bright that blind indeed
  must he be who sees them not.

  “The question which I ask myself, therefore, is not the superfluous
  one of what the Irish Americans have done for our country, but what
  they owe it. By what means were they enabled to render the great
  services which they have rendered? The answer is clear. Their
  possibilities arose from the wise, the free institutions which our
  forefathers founded and under the shelter of which the Irish Americans
  were enabled here to seek a haven and to establish their new homes,
  thus affording them the opportunity of rendering the services which
  they have rendered to the expansion and preservation of our
  institutions.

  “This being true, I ask myself the question, and I ask of each one of
  you, how best can we honor them? How best can we show our appreciation
  of the great work which they have done? The answer comes spontaneously
  to the mind: By preserving and perpetuating those institutions which
  have blessed them so much and which they have in return so helped to
  establish and preserve.

  “As I look, Mr. President, at present conditions in our country, there
  are indications to my mind of great danger to our institutions. It
  seems to me I observe a tendency in the minds of the people to forget
  how vital to their perpetuation is the preservation of all the wise
  limitations which our forefathers ordained. It seems to me that there
  is a growing forgetfulness of the fact that the liberty which our
  fathers founded was not license but a liberty restrained by law; that
  the government which they established was one of limited powers and
  divided authority, national and local, each fulfilling their separate
  functions and each intended to move in their allotted sphere like the
  orbs of the Sidereal universe, thus securing the plenitude of local
  rights whilst at the same time obtaining national power and authority,
  not unlimited, but confined to its allotted orbit.

  “I say that it seems to me there is a tendency to forget these things
  because it is observable at the present time that wherever an evil
  obtains which needs remedying the tendency of the public mind is to
  attribute the evil, not to a mistaken administration, but to the
  existence of some one of those great safeguards upon the preservation
  of which our institutions depend. So also it seems to me it is
  observable that there is a great tendency in the public mind, whenever
  it is deemed that a wrong requires remedy, to grow restive under the
  restraints imposed by constitutional limitations, to regard them as
  antiquated or obsolete, and thus seek to redress the wrong without
  regard to those limitations, forgetful of the great truth that
  whatever may be the temporary good to be accomplished by a disregard
  of the fundamental limitations of our Constitution, such good is
  insignificant in comparison with the untold harm which must result
  from overthrowing the very foundations upon which our government rests
  and by the adhering to which alone it can endure.

  “Again, it seems to me that this tendency in the mind of the people
  generally finds manifestation in the exertion of the powers of
  government. There seems to me to be a growing tendency to chafe at the
  limitations on power which the Constitution imposes; to seek to
  accomplish some temporary good by means deemed to be the most direct,
  wholly without reference to the question whether the resort to such
  means will conflict with or set at naught those essential limitations
  upon power which the Constitution was expressly adopted to secure.

  “With this danger confronting us may I not say that if we would honor
  and reverence the memory of the Irish Americans who have done so much
  for the upbuilding of our institutions, that we may best do it by
  seeing to it that the institutions which they have helped to build up
  shall be preserved in all of their integrity. Ah, then, if we would
  perform the duty of honoring those who have gone before, let us each
  and all fix in our hearts the enduring purpose to see to it that these
  evil tendencies are corrected and thereby renew and revivify our
  resolution to preserve and perpetuate our institutions.

[Illustration:

  HON. VICTOR J. DOWLING.

  Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York.

  Jurist, Author and Historian.
]

  “With this in mind, before I take my seat let me propose to you a
  toast: ‘The Irish American of today, and the Irish American to come.
  May they honor and reverence the memory of their forerunners by
  bringing the splendor of their courage, the generosity of their
  devotion and the keenness of their intellect to the perpetuation of
  the government which the fathers founded, embodying, as it does,
  liberty restrained from license, government, both national and local,
  with limited and defined powers in the continued existence of which
  our future of peace and prosperity are bound up and in whose
  perpetuation the hopes of all mankind who value true liberty are so
  intimately involved.’”


Mr. Justice White’s eloquent and graceful address received the closest
attention, and great applause and cheering followed the stirring toast
at the end.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: “Ladies and Gentlemen, some time ago I was
present at an entertainment where the orator of the occasion bore an
international reputation. The chairman of the evening took an hour and a
quarter to introduce the gentleman, but his speech lasted only a quarter
of an hour. Now I could take an hour and a half to introduce the next
speaker to you, but I will just announce his name, the Hon. Victor J.
Dowling, Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, who will
respond to the toast “Irish Pioneers in New York.””


  Judge Dowling said:

  “While we know that an Irishman was in Columbus’ crew on his first
  voyage to the New World, we have no means of ascertaining whether any
  of his countrymen were on the ships of either Verrazano, Gomez or
  Hudson, upon the first three occasions when the Bay of New York was
  seen by Europeans. The mystery which has enveloped the early life of
  Hudson and which shrouded his end surrounds as well many of the
  details of his memorable cruise. We do know that besides the captain
  there were but two aboard that vessel out of its total equipment of
  from sixteen to twenty men who spoke English—Robert Juet of Limehouse,
  England, the captain’s clerk, who kept the journal of the voyage, and
  one John Colman, a sailor, referred to as an Englishman by Juet, but
  who may have been of Irish descent. He was evidently an experienced
  seafaring man and a follower of Hudson’s, for in the first known
  reference to the latter, which is the record of his voyage of
  discovery for the Muscovy Company, April 19, 1607, in search of a
  passage by way of the North Pole to Japan and China, Colman was one of
  the sailors. As Hudson passed the Highlands of Navesink September 1,
  1609, and entered the lower bay, he was so impressed with its beauty
  that he described it as ‘a very good land to fall in with, and a
  pleasant land to see.’ On September 6 a boat’s crew was dispatched
  from the ship and, entering and passing the Narrows, beheld the first
  view of Manhattan Island. The land encircling the bay was covered with
  trees, grass and flowers and the air was filled with delightful
  fragrance. On their return the crew were attacked by Indians in two
  canoes, and John Colman was killed by an arrow piercing his throat—the
  first blood offering to the approaching civilization which was to
  revolutionize the hitherto peaceful scene.

  “While the Dutch occupation of New Amsterdam continued, we find no
  positive traces of Irish names or inhabitants, save in two instances.
  One is the mention of the Irishman from Virginia who went to
  confession to Father Jogues in 1643, while the latter was temporarily
  sojourning in the town after his rescue by the Dutch from the hands of
  the Indians, and who advised the latter of the presence of Jesuit
  fathers in Virginia. The other is the name, several times appearing,
  of ‘Thomas, the Irishman,’ concerning whom I have been able to collect
  many scattered items. His real name was Thomas Lewis, although he is
  to be found referred to at various times as ‘Thomas, the Irishman,’
  ‘the Irishman,’ and Lodewycksen or Lodewycksz, as well as by his
  proper name. He was the captain of one of Director Stuyvesant’s war
  yachts, which served for a dispatch-boat as well.

  “His was an interesting career, and I am glad to be able to present
  some of its salient features, which may enjoy at least the merits of
  novelty. He was born in Belfast, and becoming involved in the
  Cromwellian wars, his family was dispersed, his two sisters first
  flying to Holland for refuge, where they afterwards died. They were
  followed by Lewis, who upon their death applied to the West India
  Company at Amsterdam and was by them sent to New York. In the
  Directors’ letter to Director Stuyvesant and his Council (June 14,
  1656), they notify the latter: ‘In the ship _Blauwe Duiff_ (Blue Dove)
  goes also over Thomas Lodewicksen, carpenter, for whom the Company,
  too, paid the fare, on condition of his remaining in New Netherland
  for three years, or if he leave before he must refund the passage
  money to you in Holland coin or its equivalent.’ The _Blauwe Duiff_
  arrived here September 5, 1656. Lewis appears to have gone to Albany
  (then Fort Orange) for in 1658 he was in partnership there with
  Reynier Wisselpennigh as carpenters and builders and they sued the
  local church for 270 guilders for building the ‘Doop-huysie’
  (baptistry) and received the full amount. In 1661 his partner and he
  had differences over the cost of fitting out a sloop they were
  building. He must have come to New Amsterdam shortly thereafter, as
  the court records here show. In the meantime he had married, in Fort
  Orange, Geesje Barents.

  “On October 17, 1662, Reiner Wisselpenninck brought suit against
  ‘Tomas, the Irishman’ in the Mayor’s Court at the City Hall, to
  recover a balance of six beavers due for a half-interest in a bark,
  and two beavers for a barrel of tar. Defendant counterclaimed and
  plaintiff had judgment for three beavers only. On May 29, 1663,
  certain tobacco contained in the bark of ‘Thomas, the Irishman’ and
  belonging to Samuel Etsal was attached in a suit against the latter.
  Hendrick Zanzen Smith sued Gysbert Frerickzen October 2, 1663, and in
  that action an attachment was levied on moneys belonging to defendant
  in the hands of ‘Thomas, the Irishman.’

  “In June, 1663, Director Stuyvesant sailed from Manhattan to Wildwyck
  (Kingston) on Lewis’ yacht, and on the 15th of the month while lying
  in the ‘Long Reach’ (North River) he sent a message to the magistrates
  at Fort Orange, in the course of which he noted ‘this is written in
  haste on board of the Irishman’s yacht.’

  “In the correspondence between Director Stuyvesant and Captain Cregier
  at the Esopus and in the minutes of the government of the latter
  reference is made five times in 1663 to the arrival of Lewis at ‘the
  redoubt’ at Esopus from Manhattan; on August 5th, on September 1st
  (when he and Claesje Hoorn came in their yachts) and on September
  17th, 19th and 21st. On all these occasions he is referred to as
  ‘Thomas, the Irishman.’ In an order of the Council, August 29, 1663,
  Tomos Lodewyck and Claes Lock were ordered to await orders from
  Captain Cregier before the Redoubt (Roudont). This was during the
  Indian war in the Esopus.

  “Thomas Lewis was an active and successful man, and in addition to
  being a ship-owner and pilot was evidently engaged in trade and in the
  sale of liquor. He first figured in the Mayor’s Court February 5,
  1667, when he was sued by John Danrell, and the matter was referred to
  arbitrators. On the 7th of the same month he contributed eight beaver
  skins to the support of the minister. He was engaged in a long
  controversy with Simon Turcq in 1668 over 230 planks, which he claimed
  to have theretofore paid, and out of which rose a suit against Poulus
  Leenderson for ninety of the same boards. In 1669 he was sued by
  Warner Wessels, the city farmer, for taking into his house ’1 hogshead
  of rum and 3 anckers of stilled waters’ without accounting therefor.
  This suit he won. But he lost an action brought by Hendrick Obe to
  recover f.79.5 in wampum for the excise duties on some wine and beer.
  At a Council meeting held at Elizabethtown, New Jersey, November 7,
  1671, it was ordered that no corn or provision be transported out of
  the Delaware River except what was then aboard the sloop of Thomas
  Lewis, then in the river, for which he was given a special license. In
  1672 he sued William Waldron for borrowing his boat without his
  consent, and then setting it adrift, when it was thereafter found by
  John Benneco at Staten Island, who demanded salvage. The defendant was
  mulcted in the salvage and was directed to turn the boat over to the
  owner, who was to send his boy to the island to take possession of it.
  At a council held at Fort James January 27, 1673, permission was given
  to all vessels from this point to go up the Delaware River above New
  Castle, upon producing the Governor’s certificate in consequence of a
  complaint concerning Capt. Lewis’ sloop. During the Dutch
  re-occupation of the city, when war again threatened, we find in the
  ‘Records of New Amsterdam’ ‘that the Schout, Burgomasters and Schepens
  being assembled “Collegialiter” in the City Hall of New Orange March
  10, 1674, they sent for the skippers and barquers of the city, when
  they were notified of the Governor General’s order that no more than
  two sloops shall go at once to Willemstadt and Esopus, and one to the
  South river, and that they sail alternately to be determined by lot;
  also that no passengers be conveyed without passports.’ Whereupon the
  skippers making known in turn their views, ‘Thomas Lewis is satisfied
  with what the Governor and Council decree.’

  “We find records of trips made by him to Virginia, Boston, Rhode
  Island and the Delaware (South) River from 1665 to 1669, carrying
  merchandise of all kinds. September 26, 1671, Governor Lovelace
  promises ‘Mr. Tom’ at the Delaware to send him information by Peter
  Alrick ‘who tomorrow will embark in Tom the Irishman’s yacht.’ In
  1675, he was appointed to make a calculation of the expense for
  building a new church in conjunction with Adolph Pieters and Abraham
  Jansen. We find that in 1678 he owned a sloop called the _Katharine_.

  “In a list of the richest inhabitants of New York made February 19,
  1674, Thomas Lewis is credited with the possession of property valued
  at 6,000 florins, Holland currency, only sixteen appearing therein as
  being wealthier. At the time of the English occupation he owned real
  estate on the west side of Pearl Street between Wall and William
  streets, then known as the Water Side, then valued at $10,000; also on
  the South Street (now William) between Hanover Square and Wall Street.

  “From the records of the baptisms in the Dutch church we learn that he
  had eight children, named, respectively, Barent, Cornelia, Leendert,
  Catharina, Cornelia, Thomas, Cornelis and Rachel. Anthony Brockholst
  was one of the witnesses at the baptism of the last named in 1678. The
  descendants of Barent, Leendert (or Leonard) and Thomas are scattered
  throughout the Hudson Valley, and the family name appears at various
  times in the records as Lenwis, Leuis, Lieuwens, Lieuwes, Lieuwis,
  Lievens, Lievenszen, Lieuens, Liewensen, Liewes, and Liewis. In the
  New York Genealogical and Biographical Record (Volume XXXIV) the date
  of Thomas Lewis’ death is given as September 24, 1684, and his age as
  56. His will was admitted to probate under Governor Dougan, April 1,
  1686, and letters testamentary were issued to his wife Geesie Lewis.
  She then lived with her daughter Catharine along the Strand (Lang
  Strant) and they were members of the Dutch church. Her sons then
  living were Barent, Thomas and Leonard, with the eldest Lodiwick
  (apparently born at Fort Orange) who at the time of his father’s death
  was living with Lewis Thomson at Belfast, and thereupon returned to
  New York, where he died without issue.

  “But there are some names of merchants doing business here from 1643
  to 1647 which, if not English, must be Irish, and while the present
  ascertainment of their exact nationality seems hopeless, yet careful
  research might still enroll them in the honor roll of Irish pioneers.
  These were Rev. Francis Doughty, the English minister, residing in
  Pearl Street, between Whitehall and State streets, who on March 28,
  1647, received a grant of 6,666 (Dutch) acres of land at Mespath
  (Newtown patent); Robert Butler, residing on the same street, between
  Stone and Bridge streets; Michael Pickett, residing on Broad Street,
  near Beaver; and Thomas Sanderson, residing on Beaver Street, who
  received grants of land on this island July 13, 1643, October 25,
  1653, and September 14, 1665.

  “There was a Jan Patrickx or John Patrick here in 1653 and a James
  Code or Cody in 1658. Thomas Higgins was sued for value of 275 pieces
  of firewood on November 20, 1661, and by Thomas Hall for the return of
  a saw January 31, 1662.

  “Among the names of those to whom grants of land under the Dutch
  occupancy were made were Thomas Hall, Thomas Chambers and George
  Holmes, each receiving more than one grant; the first two took the
  oath of allegiance to the English authorities between October 21 and
  26, 1664.

  “The English capture of New Amsterdam in 1664 did not, so far as we
  have any records, lead to any influx of Irish settlers here. So novel
  was their coming that we find reference made as a remarkable fact to
  the presence of the person, unnamed, who is supposed to have been the
  first direct Irish immigrant to New York, being an Irish girl, a
  servant in the household of Isaac Allerton, a well-known English
  tobacco merchant, and who was working therein in 1665, shortly after
  the English occupation. Little could she have dreamt of the host of
  her sister voyagers who brought to this country the spirit of
  devotion, of self-sacrifice, of faithful discharge of duty, which
  ultimately forced itself upon the grudgingly-given attention of the
  community and admiration for which as well as for the tenderness and
  purity of the women of the Irish race was the most potent force in
  tearing down the wall of hostility and hatred which intolerance and
  ignorance had reared in the way of the progress of the Irishmen in
  this country towards recognition, equality and success.

[Illustration:

  MR. JOHN J. DALY.

  Of New York City.

  An Earnest and Helpful Member of the Society.
]

  “Patrick Hayes must have been a resident of the city for some years.
  He apparently came from the colony of Maryland. We find a record of
  his service as a juryman in the Mayor’s Court on many occasions during
  the year 1666. He evidently was a tapster and hotel-keeper, for he had
  controversy with the excise in 1667. He must have been engaged in
  general business as well, for in suits between third parties moneys
  were attached in his hands in 1667 and he sued various parties for
  goods sold in 1667 and 1668. In two of these cases Thomas Carr was a
  joint plaintiff. In the action of William Urgent against John Ashman
  for slander, June 2, 1668, he was a witness to prove his knowledge of
  the plaintiff as a freeman in the province of Maryland. John Daaly was
  a plaintiff in two suits in the Mayor’s Court in 1670. John Quigly
  figures as a plaintiff in the Mayor’s Court against Ralph Huddison
  August 15, 1671, when he sued successfully to recover £16, 10 sh., for
  earthenware sold. He served as a juror in the same month, and was one
  of the arbitrators appointed in the suit of Samuel Bach and David
  Gomer against the Ketch Betty (attached). Dennis McKarty sued Thomas
  Edwards, master of the Ketch ‘Society’ in the Mayor’s Court October
  24, 1671, to recover £5 for cutting and chipping logwood, and
  recovered judgment. He was himself sued by Samuel Hall November 14,
  1671. Thomas Griffin was one of the public cartmen of the city
  February 13, 1672.

  “During the intervening years, until the Dutch re-occupation in 1673,
  when its name was changed to New Orange, the city saw but few Irish
  faces and the list of the burghers contains no Irish names. Upon the
  re-cession of the city to England in 1674, when English rule became an
  assured fact, it is reasonable to suppose that some Irish arrivals
  must have been noted. Yet we can only surmise that from the names as
  we afterwards find them on the rolls. So, in 1674, Andrew Clare is
  recorded as owning land on Pearl Street, between Whitehall and State
  streets; in 1677, we note as residing here, William Walsh; in 1680,
  Abraham Corbett, a distiller, residing on Broadway near Exchange
  Place, and William Cox, flour merchant, residing on Hanover Square; in
  1691, Lawrence Reade; in 1695, John Morris and Peter Matthews; in
  1698, William Morris; in 1702, Thomas Flynn, surgeon, and Patrick
  Crawford; in 1703, John Barr, Thomas Carroll, Richard Flemming,
  Bartholomew Hart, Henry Mooney and Peter Moran; in 1708, Anthony
  Lynch; in 1710, Thomas Kearney; in 1711, James Maxwell. All these were
  freemen. In 1696, the then Governor Fletcher returned to the home
  authorities a list of eleven Irish Catholics residing in the city,
  none of whom was a burgher nor a landowner. Captain Evans, of the
  _Richmond_ frigate, who was here with the Governor, was the son of an
  Irish shoemaker.

  “It is significant that we first begin to notice Irish names after the
  administration of Governor Dongan had commenced. The commanding
  position held by an Irishman for the first time in Colonial history
  must have attracted to this colony many of his less favored
  compatriots, who found here not only a haven of refuge where they
  could practise their religion, but a favored spot where under his
  enlightened sway the hope of entire civil liberty was near
  realization. The life and services of Thomas Dongan have never
  received their just recognition at the hands of historians, nor do we
  realize the debt, which, as citizens of a great city, we owe this man
  whose conceptions of liberty were far in advance of his time. At the
  risk of triteness I cannot forbear epitomizing his career, for it is
  that of the first Irishman who not only figured prominently in the
  city’s history, but, as well, moulded its future and made it possible
  of achievement. Thomas Dongan, second Earl of Limerick, was born in
  1634 at Castletown, County Kildare, Ireland, the youngest of the three
  sons of Sir John Dongan, Baronet. His mother was a sister of Richard
  Talbot, Earl of Tyrconnel and Lieutenant-Governor of Ireland. The
  family removed to France after the execution of Charles I, when Dongan
  entered the army and was commissioned by Louis XIV, in an Irish
  regiment, where he rose by degrees to the rank of Colonel. Returning
  to England after the Restoration, after declining an offer of
  preferment in the French Army, he was commissioned and an annual
  pension of five hundred pounds given him. In the same year, 1678, he
  was sent as Lieutenant-Governor to Tangier under Lord Inchiquin, where
  he served for two years, returning to London to spend the life of a
  man of society and a favorite at Court. Through the influence of the
  Duke of York he was made Governor of the Province of New York, his
  jurisdiction including parts of Maine besides Long Island, Martha’s
  Vineyard, Nantucket and all the land from the Connecticut River to
  Delaware Bay. He was also commissioned Vice-Admiral. Arriving in New
  York August 25, 1683, from Nantasket, he had on the way hither
  promised the inhabitants of the easterly end of Long Island that ‘no
  laws or rates for the future should be imposed but by a General
  Assembly’—but a slight foretaste of what he was really to accomplish.
  The population of the city was then less than four thousand and it
  extended from the Bay to the entrenchments along Wall Street. From the
  Collect Pond (the site of the Tombs) to the northwest towards the
  North River extended a marsh of seventy acres. From the Bouweries to
  Harlem there stretched a wood haunted by bears and wolves, and within
  the city walls themselves bear hunts took place in the orchards, one
  located between Cedar Street and Maiden Lane. Under his rule, general
  hunts were held to exterminate wolves from the city. The inhabitants
  were largely Dutch, but there were many French Huguenots and some few
  English. In this rather primitive community, great things were about
  to be done for liberty. Pursuant to his instructions from the Duke,
  Dongan ordered an election of a ‘General Assembly of all the
  freeholders by the persons whom they shall choose to represent them,’
  in order to consider with the Governor and Council ‘what laws are fit
  and necessary to be made and established for the good weal and
  government of the said colony and its dependencies and all the
  inhabitants thereof,’ with full liberty of consultation and debate
  among the members. All laws passed were to be subject to the veto of
  the Governor, and if approved by him were to be submitted to the Duke
  of York, remaining effective until disapproved by him. It is to the
  glory of Dongan that he not only approved but initiated many of the
  revolutionary measures afterwards enacted. On September 13, 1683, a
  date memorable in the city’s history, the Freeholders of New York,
  Long Island, Esopus, Albany and Martha’s Vineyard were notified to
  elect representatives to meet in General Assembly in New York City on
  October 17th. Seventeen delegates responded, whereof four were from
  New York and Harlem. This first popular representative assembly met at
  Fort James, and Matthias Nicoll was speaker. Fourteen acts were
  passed, whereof the most important was, ‘The Charter of Liberties and
  Privileges granted by His Royal Highness to the inhabitants of New
  York and its dependencies.’ This was declared to be enacted ‘for the
  better establishing the government of this province of New York, and
  that justice and right may be equally done within the same.’ Among the
  provisions of this well-named Charter of Liberties were those
  providing for at least a triennial session of the General Assembly;
  that every freeholder and freeman should have the elective franchise
  without constraint or imposition; that majorities should decide every
  issue; that representatives should be apportioned among the counties;
  that the members should enjoy all the privileges of members of
  Parliament; and in fine extending to the inhabitants of this colony
  all the rights and privileges which Englishmen at home enjoyed under
  Magna Charta and the provisions of English law. Entire freedom of
  conscience and of religion were guaranteed to all peaceable persons
  ‘which profess faith in God by Jesus Christ,’ and the privileges of
  all existing churches and their discipline were protected. No tax was
  to be levied without the consent of the Governor, Council and
  Assembly, thus recognizing the principle which the people had wrested
  from Mary of Burgundy, in 1477, by the charter called ‘The Great
  Privilege.’ And thus, for the first time in America, the people were
  recognized as having legislative power and authority. Accepted by the
  Governor and proclaimed October 31, 1683, a new standard was set for
  popular liberty and popular aspiration so that Governor Hunter was
  able to write to Dean Swift, in 1704, ‘this is the plan of government
  they all aim at and make no scruple to own.’ The Duke of York accepted
  this charter October 4, 1684, but when he became King James II he
  refused to confirm it as being too liberal and implying too much
  recognition of the people as a political entity, and it died by his
  veto October 4, 1684. But the seed had been sown, and its growth could
  not be stopped. At the same session, courts of justice were by statute
  provided for; the naturalization of aliens was prescribed, and twelve
  counties were established in the province. To add to the other
  landmarks of his administration, a charter was granted to New York
  City April 27, 1686, which has since continued to be the basis of our
  municipal laws, rights, privileges, public property and franchises.
  ‘It was worded with care and showed that those who framed it were
  possessed of a broad and enlightened sense of the sanctity of
  corporate and private rights.’

  “During all his busy rule, Dongan was kept occupied with questions of
  statesmanship which none but an able and resourceful man could have
  handled; whether adjusting boundary disputes with New Jersey,
  Pennsylvania or Connecticut, or outgeneralling the Governor General of
  Canada at his own game; whether negotiating with the Indians or
  planning combinations with the other colonies to resist French
  aggression or undertake offense operations;—in every phase of his
  varied activities he displayed resourcefulness, tact and power.

  “He was a humane man. Under the Duke’s laws, in force from 1665 to
  1683, no Christian could keep a slave; but the New Yorkers, being
  unable to keep pace with the New Englanders, who habitually used their
  services, slaves were allowed to be kept by orders from England. But
  in the instructions which Dongan issued May 29, 1686, it was directed
  that no cruelty should be practised upon them, and the wilful killing
  of Indians and negroes was to be punished with death. We find as well
  on October 6, 1687, he proposed to his Council that some means be
  found for releasing Spaniards and other free people who were held here
  as slaves and that he forbade their masters either to sell or trade
  such persons pending their appeal for liberty. Again, July 30, 1688,
  he ordered that ‘all Indian slaves within the province, subjects of
  the King of Spain, that can give an account of their Christian faith
  and say the Lord’s Prayer shall be forthwith set at liberty, and sent
  home at the first convenience, and likewise them that shall hereafter
  come to this Province.’

  “The troubles accumulating in England found their echo here and the
  King prohibited the establishing of printing-presses here, and on
  January 20, 1687, dissolved the popular Assembly. In that year Dongan
  wrote ‘one of the most careful as well as most honest pictures of his
  provincial government which an American subordinate ever sent home to
  his English sovereign.’ In the course of it he says: ‘I believe for
  these seven years past there has not come over into this province
  twenty English, Scotch or Irish families.’

  “The entire winter of 1687 he spent at Albany, supervising the
  protection of the colony against the French, and being without
  financial help from the other settlements, he pledged his personal
  credit and mortgaged his farm on Staten Island for £2,000 to meet the
  expenses of the expedition then raised.

  “On March 23, 1688, he was superseded as Governor by Andros, who was
  made Governor General of New England in America, comprising all of
  British North America, except Pennsylvania. Dongan was offered the
  rank of Major General, which he refused in order to remain in New
  York. His homestead was at Hempstead, Long Island. He owned a hunting
  lodge on his estates at Castleton, Staten Island, which were named
  after his original home; and he had property at Martha’s Vineyard as
  well. His city residence was on Broadway, between Maiden Lane and Ann
  Street, where his flower garden was a special feature. Between these
  places he spent his time, seeking to rebuild his fortune, severely
  shattered by his expenditures for the protection of the colony he
  loved, until the reins of power fell into the hands of Jacob Leisler,
  after the flight of James II to France, when Dongan was hunted as a
  rebel and enemy of the new régime, and driven to seek refuge on his
  brigantine, on which he kept in hiding in the lower Bay. The winds
  being adverse, he was unable to sail away, and flying to New York in
  secret, thence to New London, to Hempstead, to New Jersey, and to
  Boston the first advocate of popular rights was finally forced to
  escape the persecutions of the people, whose liberties he had assured,
  by sailing to England in 1691. Never repaid any considerable part of
  the fortune he had spent to defend the honor of his country and the
  safety of her colony, he died, without issue, December 14, 1715, at
  the age of eighty-one years. With him the history of Irish activity in
  New York may well be said to begin. While he came here as an official,
  he identified himself with the Colony and with the City, and grew so
  to love it that no honors appealed to him which involved leaving it.
  To have been the means of assisting in conferring upon a people
  popular government, civic liberty and religious freedom in an age of
  despotism and persecution, is an honor which reflects credit upon the
  race to which he belonged, as well as upon himself. He has been
  characterized by historians as ‘an excellent and prudent magistrate’
  (Winsor); ‘a man of integrity, moderation and genteel manners, who may
  be classed among the best of our governors’ (Smith); ‘his firm and
  judicious policy, his steadfast integrity and his pleasing and
  courteous address soon won the affections of the people and made him
  one of the most popular of the Royal governors’ (Booth); ‘of a noble,
  praiseworthy mind and spirit’ (Gov. Hinckley); ‘a ruler who for
  breadth of mind, wide sympathy and executive ability stands far in
  advance of his times and measured by the system of government which he
  inaugurated, is easily one of the most attractive and momentous
  personages in American Colonial History’ (Driscoll). It is significant
  that this great Irish pioneer should have been an office holder, a
  tradition which the race did not forget when its hour of opportunity
  arrived. It may be said at this time that three other royal governors
  of the colony were of Irish birth, the Earl of Bellomont, who served
  from 1698, and who was the son of Baron Coote of Colooney; William
  Cosby, who arrived August 1, 1732, and who was an Equerry of the
  Queen, Colonel of the Royal Irish Regiment and the tenth son of
  Alexander Cosby of Stradbally, Queens County; and Sir William Tryon,
  the last of the line. But no one of these ever identified himself with
  the colony or is to be reckoned with as a constructive force.

  “After Dongan departs from the scene, we again have a long period of
  silence upon Irishmen in New York. The meagerness of detail as to
  anything affecting their names, their activities or their achievements
  is disheartening. Much of it may be attributed to the lack of wealth
  or social standing upon the part of those who immigrated here in the
  end of the seventeenth and the beginning of the eighteenth centuries.
  Much may be charged to their desire to conceal themselves from
  persecution and worse. There must have been refugees here from
  Virginia, New England and the Barbadoes, where penal laws were
  savagely enforced. Maryland must have furnished its quota when
  religious liberty was abolished. But New York seems never to have been
  so favorite a resort for the persecuted as Pennsylvania. Then again
  many redemptioners must have come here, when their time of service had
  expired. These were the immigrants who were unable to pay their
  passage and who on arriving were sold for a specified time to those
  who would reimburse the ship captain for their carriage.

  “In October, 1700, a number of recruits arrived in New York from
  Ireland, and one of them, Cottrill, a former ensign in King James’
  army, was shot in the Fort here for participation in a mutiny. It is
  evident from reading the record that these men had been impressed into
  the service and coming here involuntarily, sought freedom on their
  arrival. In the answers which Brigadier Hunter sent to Secretary
  Popple, August 11, 1720, he wrote: ‘The inhabitants increase day by
  day from New England, and of late from the North of Ireland.’

  “Among the North of Ireland emigrants to New York are many who figured
  prominently in the religious life of the colony. Rev. Charles Inglis,
  afterwards Rector of Trinity Church, came here as a missionary in
  1759. In 1766 Philip Embury arrived, and helped to found the John
  Street Church. He is among the pioneers of the Methodist Episcopal
  Church in America. In that year Paul Runkle, Luke Rose, Jacob Heck,
  Peter Barkman and Henry Williams, all referred to as Irish Palatines,
  landed. Charles White and Richard Sause, prominent in Methodist
  circles, came from Dublin in 1766, and later, John McClaskey and Paul
  Hick.

  “Major Henry Dawson left Dublin in 1760 and resided here for many
  years, serving as Clerk of the Common Council for twenty-six years.

  “Among the freemen of the city we find the following significant
  names: 1740, Bartholomew Ryan; 1741, John Ryan and John Lamb; 1743,
  Patrick Phagan, John McGie, John Christie, John Brannigan, John
  Connelly, Andrew Cannon, William Blake; 1744, Andrew Carroll, Anthony
  Glin; 1745, Benjamin Daly, John Carr, Bryan Nevin; 1746, Donald McCoy,
  Hugh Rogers; 1747, Timothy Allan, Hugh Mulligan, James Welch, Hugh
  Gill, John McGoers, Jr., Alexander McCoy; 1748, Philip Hogan, Matthew
  Morris; 1749, Alexander Connelly, physician. In 1761 the poll list
  included seventy-four characteristic Irish names.

  “Immigration from Ireland to the colonies in general did not become
  noticeable until 1718. It was then a steady influx, though not very
  large in numbers, until 1755, when it fell off and remained of less
  amount until after the Revolution. At the outset, the Irish families
  immigrating were almost entirely Presbyterians. The first Presbyterian
  clergyman in New York was Rev. Francis McKemie, born in Ireland, who
  arrived here in 1707. He was a brave and fearless man, whose pulpit
  utterances led to his trial for libel, upon which he was acquitted.
  The large Catholic exodus did not begin until after our Independence
  had been achieved. A prominent citizen of New York in the eighteenth
  century was Sir Peter Warren, born in County Meath in 1702, and the
  uncle of the famous William Johnson, also born in County Meath in
  1715, whose life is a romance. Warren was a very heavy real estate
  holder in the city, owning 260 acres here, much of his holdings being
  of land which since has become enormously valuable. Warren Street is
  named after him. He was a prominent social figure in Colonial life.
  Among the names of those who were active in commercial life in New
  York City, prior to the Revolution, are many Irishmen, who figured as
  some of the most successful and reputable merchants of their time.
  Such were the two Wallaces, Alexander and Hugh, who were in business
  from 1750, Hugh being the second President of the Chamber of Commerce;
  Miles Sherbrooke, one of the founders of the Chamber in 1768, and a
  member of the Committee of Correspondence, the advance guard of the
  Revolution; Patrick McDavitt, an auctioneer in Kings Street, from
  1768; Alexander Mulligan, an importer of Irish goods, beef, linen and
  other commodities; Hercules Mulligan, a merchant tailor; Oliver
  Templeton, an auctioneer; Daniel McCormick, also an auctioneer. During
  the time of the Revolution and following it, we find the names of
  Michael Connolly, dealer in lumber; William and James Constable, in
  the West Indian, China and Indian trade; the Pollocks, Carlisle,
  George and Hugh; John Haggerty, an auctioneer; William Edgar; John
  Glover; John W. and Philip Kearney, commission merchandise; John and
  Nathan McVickar, linen drapers; Alexander McComb, a fur dealer and
  then a land speculator, who invested heavily in city real estate; and
  Michael Hogan, in the commission and shipping business, who owned, and
  in memory of his birthplace in County Clare, named the northern part
  of his holdings, Claremont. All these men were representative,
  flourishing men, who stood as high in public esteem as any of the
  residents of the city of that day. They were all either Irish by birth
  or by immediate descent. How many of their poorer fellow-countrymen
  were then here we have no means of knowing, but it is significant that
  while the Jews had a synagogue here from 1730, there was no Catholic
  place of worship from the time when Dongan had Mass said within the
  Fort until the year 1786.

  “Lieutenant-General John Maunsell was born in 1724, the son of Richard
  Maunsell of Limerick, a member of Parliament from 1741 to 1761.
  Commissioned as an ensign in 1741, he was at the sieges of Louisburg,
  Quebec, Montreal, Martinique and Havana, during which time he rose to
  be Captain and finally in 1761 Major of the 60th or Royal Americans.
  He was gazetted for gallantry Lieutenant-Colonel of the 83d Regiment
  October 31, 1762, and was thereafter transferred to the 27th Foot
  (Iniskillings). He had received for his services a grant of land
  adjoining Major Skene’s at Whitehall (old Skenesborough). Coming to
  New York City, he married for his second wife Elizabeth Stillwell,
  widow of Captain Peter Wraxall, at Trinity Church, June 11, 1763. He
  lived here with his wife at Greenwich, in the Ninth Ward, in property
  belonging to Oliver DeLancey, until he sailed for England with other
  loyalists in May, 1775, leaving his wife behind him. Returning for her
  in 1776, he then went to Kinsale, in Ireland, where he had received an
  appointment which he had requested in order to avoid serving against
  the Colonies. October 19, 1781, he was gazetted Major-General on half
  pay in the Irish Establishment. Living in London until 1784 he resided
  in New York continuously thereafter, his city house being at 11
  Broadway. He was made Lieutenant-General October 12, 1793. He owned a
  farm of 60 acres on Harlem Heights, between Morris and Watkins places,
  the site now being divided by St. Nicholas Avenue. He died July 27,
  1795, and was buried in the Bradhurst vault in Trinity Cemetery.

  “Another striking figure of pre-Revolutionary days, and an aggressive
  if unpopular one, was Hugh Gaine, the printer. And it is strange that
  after Bradford and Franklin, the two great figures in the early
  history of printing in America should be those of Irishmen—Gaine in
  New York and Matthew Carey in Philadelphia. Gaine has been a
  much-abused man and was very unpopular during the Revolutionary
  period, but he is an example of a successful business man. Born at
  Belfast in 1726, he was apprenticed at an early age to James McGee, a
  printer there. He emigrated to New York in 1745 ‘without basket or
  burden,’ and secured employment with James Parker at wages of $1.25 a
  week. He went into the business of bookselling in 1752 in partnership
  with William Weyman, a former apprentice of William Bradford. A
  characteristic advertisement of the period is the following: ‘To be
  sold by Weyman & Gaine at their House on Hunters’ Key, next door but
  one to Mr. Perry’s, Watchmaker; Bibles of different Sizes, with and
  without the Common Prayer; gilt and plain Common Prayers of most
  sorts, Church and Meeting Psalm Books, History of the New Testament,
  History of the Five Indian Nations, Account of the Earthquake at Lima,
  Ovid’s Metamorphosis, Virgil, Cornelius Nepos, Mariners’ Compasses,
  Scales and Dividers, Writing paper by the Quire or Sheet, also choice
  good Bonnet Papers.’ On August 3, 1752, Gaine alone commenced the
  publication of the _New York Mercury_ at the same store, the
  subscription being twelve shillings per year, and advertisements of a
  moderate length were published for five shillings each. He sold books
  and stationery as well at this time, and his was one of two stores
  where theatre tickets were sold. After various migrations the business
  was finally located at the Bible and Crown in Hanover Square in 1745.
  During a bitter controversy caused by the attempt of the Presbyterians
  to curb what they thought was the undue dominance of the
  Episcopalians, a letter in the form of a petition ostensibly coming
  from the Irish residents in New York, was sent by a committee for
  insertion in the _Mercury_, to be published anonymously; but the
  letter was in bad English, misspelled and full of ridiculous
  exaggerations—all purposely done—and Gaine refused to print it as a
  reflection on the Irish nation, of which he was proud. _The Mercury_,
  in 1758, in announcing the fall of Louisburg, printed a wood cut
  diagram of the fortress—an unusual piece of enterprise for the times.
  That printers did not then consider advertising the principal feature
  of their papers may be inferred from his apology in an issue of 1759:
  ‘We hope those of our customers whose advertisements are omitted this
  week will not take it amiss, it being occasioned by the agreeable
  advice received from the Fleet and Army at Quebec.’ In this connection
  it may be noted that in 1755 he had offered for sale ‘A very few brass
  mounted Broad Swords, late the property of his Most Christian Majesty;
  so that the purchaser, in case of a French war, will have the
  advantage of his enemies, as he can encounter them with their own
  weapons.’ He offered for sale at various times corkscrews, razors and
  wafers; playing cards, blacking balls and liquid blacking; boots,
  pumps and shoes; hogs’ fat, shaving soap and German flutes; a parcel
  of choice Irish butter, lottery tickets and patent medicines.

[Illustration:

  MR. EDMOND J. CURRY.

  Of New York City.

  A Member of the Society.
]

  “Many books issued from his press, including a series of almanacs. But
  his bookselling and newspaper furnished his chief source of wealth.
  His paper was delivered in the city by messenger. We find him
  advertising in 1780: ‘Wanted, a Person that will engage to deliver
  this paper to the Customers in Town for twelve months or longer. Good
  encouragement will be given. He need not attend more than four hours
  every Monday.’ Printing paper being scarce, he continually advertised
  for rags to be brought to him for purchase and in 1760 he commenced
  advertising in this form: ‘Ready money for clean Linen Rags to be had
  at H. Gaines’.’ In 1773 a paper mill was established at Hempstead by
  him and two of his friends.

  “Among the important printing done by his press was ‘The Votes and
  Proceedings of the General Assembly,’ whereof the first volume
  appeared in 1764, the second in 1766. Appointed Public Printer by the
  colony, January 15, 1768, he also became the official City printer.
  General Gage’s famous proclamation of June 12, 1775, was printed by
  him, the work being done here that it might remain a secret in Boston
  until published. Up to this time Gaine had given every proof of being
  in sympathy with the cause of freedom, so that he was forced to fly to
  Newark when the British occupied New York in 1776. The authorities
  seized his printing plant here and published the _New York Gazette_
  therefrom, using his name for a time as proprietor. Tiring of his
  exile, he evidently made terms with the invaders, for he returned to
  New York and his business was restored to him, the first issue of the
  resumed paper dating from November 11, 1776, leaving behind him his
  press at Newark, which was promptly seized by the patriots and a paper
  printed thereon for some time. From this time on he was a thorough
  going Tory, and was the subject of particularly virulent attack from
  the Americans, the _Pennsylvania Journal_ in 1777 for example
  enquiring: ‘Who is the greatest liar upon earth? Hugh Gaine of New
  York.’ But he lived through the turmoil and after freedom was
  obtained, he continued doing business. In 1788, against violent
  protest, he received the contract for printing the paper money for the
  State of New York. He was Treasurer and Vice-President of the St.
  Patrick’s Society, a vestryman of Trinity Church and an active Mason.
  He owned a country home at Kings Bridge Road, and a large tract of
  land at Canajoharie. He bought and sold land in the city, there being
  records of twenty-four parcels of land sold by himself or his
  executors.

  “Gaine died April 27, 1807, at the ripe age of eighty-one, and was
  buried in Trinity Churchyard. Two of his children had predeceased him,
  and three survived, as well as his second wife. His executors were his
  son-in-law, John Kemp, and his friends Richard Harrison and Daniel
  McCormick, the latter already referred to. His lines had not fallen in
  pleasant places during the Revolution and his abandonment of the
  patriot cause was never entirely forgiven, but as a business man his
  integrity was never questioned.

  “It is not my purpose to refer to Irish activity in the city during
  Revolutionary days, for that would be a field worthy of independent
  study and treatment. The roll of the martyrs of the _Jersey_ prison
  ship, for example, is studded with Irish names. Nor is it pertinent to
  our subject, for no pioneers came here then, as the tide of
  immigration practically stopped during the war, although it is worthy
  of note that Richard Montgomery, destined to undying fame, bought a
  farm at Kingsbridge in 1773, and had intended to make this city his
  home. He was born at Swords, near Feltrim, Ireland. Like nearly all
  the Irish of New York, he did not hesitate a moment before casting his
  life and fortune into the balance when the call to arms came.

  “But after the declaration of peace the Irish Catholic influx began.
  Among those whose names have survived, no one stands higher than
  Dominick Lynch. Born in Galway in 1754, he received a thorough
  education and went to Bruges in Flanders to open a commercial house,
  in which he accumulated a fortune. There he met Don Thomas Stoughton
  (afterwards his brother-in-law and Spanish Consul at New York) with
  whom he entered into partnership for the establishment of business in
  New York. Stoughton came here first, arriving in 1783, and Lynch
  followed in 1785, with his fortune in ready money, the largest sum
  brought to the colonies in many years. The firm dissolved in 1795.
  Lynch lived in luxury, occupying a house on Broadway, near the
  Battery, adjoining that of the Spanish Minister. He was a prominent
  figure in assisting in the establishment of the first Catholic Church
  in New York. Tradition has it that the first Catholic congregation
  worshipped in Ann Street, where they were ministered to by Rev.
  Ferdinand Farmer, and we find later a record of another composed of
  Frenchmen and Spaniards, who met in a building in Warren Street, known
  as Vaux Hall, where Rev. Charles Whelan, a Capuchin, was their pastor
  in 1784. St. Peter’s Church was incorporated, succeeding them, June
  10, 1785. Lynch helped from his private purse to meet their needs and
  was one of the trustees and incorporators. He issued an appeal to the
  people of Galway for funds to help in building the church, most of the
  Irish in the fold coming from that County. He was one of the laymen
  authorized by Bishop Carroll to receive subscriptions for the
  establishment of Georgetown Academy (now the University) and was one
  of the signers of the address on behalf of the Catholics of America to
  General George Washington, four being laymen, and Bishop Carroll, the
  fifth. One of his sons was baptized in St. Peter’s Church—Alexander
  Didacus—born April 23, 1788, and for whom His Excellency Didacus de
  Gardoqui, Ambassador of Spain, was a sponsor. He owned two thousand
  acres of land adjoining Fort Stanwix on the Mohawk River, where he
  laid out a village called Lynchville, which afterwards became the city
  of Rome. His county seat was in Westchester County, on the site of the
  present Sacred Heart Academy, at Classon-on-the-Sound, said to have
  been the place where Mass was first said in that county. He died June,
  1825, and was buried in Old Saint Patricks. His son, Dominick, was a
  vocalist, musician, musical critic and general society favorite, whose
  house was the favored resort of the most brilliant people of his time.
  He lived in Greenwich Street, near the Battery, and is thought to have
  been instrumental with Lorenzo da Ponte, the librettist of “Don
  Giovanni” and “Le Nozze di Figaro,” in having brought to New York the
  first Italian Grand Opera troupe under Garcia, when Mme. Malibran
  first won success and laid the foundation of her fame.

  “Cornelius Heeney, born in Kings County, Ireland, in 1754, was another
  contemporaneous successful merchant. He was a bookkeeper for William
  Backhous, an English Quaker furrier, at 40 Little Dock (now Water)
  Street. John Jacob Astor was a porter and salesman there. When
  Backhous retired from business he turned it over to Astor and Heeney,
  who afterwards dissolved partnership. He was a very wealthy and a very
  charitable man, and his benefactions still continue, through the
  agencies he created, to maintain them. He was one of those who took
  title to new Saint Patricks, the other being Andrew Morris, a
  successful soapmaker, also born in Ireland.

  “A trio of great men who came to New York after the rising of ’98 were
  Thomas Addis Emmet, Dr. William James McNevin and William Sampson. The
  lives, high professional attainments and success of the first two are
  too well known to require more than a passing reference. They did
  immeasurable good in instilling respect for Irish characteristics and
  admiration for Irish genius. Emmet exercised a potent influence on the
  early political history of the country. His location in this city,
  instead of going to Ohio as he had intended, was due to the advice of
  Governor George Clinton, and was followed by his election as
  Attorney-General of the State within eight years after his reaching
  these shores. The monument to his memory in St. Paul’s churchyard is a
  fitting companion to the memorial to General Montgomery. He
  collaborated with Doctor MacNevin in the production of ‘Pieces of
  Irish History.’ Doctor MacNevin, in the midst of a busy and highly
  lucrative practice, and while acting as a professor in a medical
  college, found time to establish a bureau to obtain places for Irish
  servant girls, and to publish “Directions or Advice to Irishmen
  Arriving in America.” William Sampson, the third of the number, was
  born in Londonderry, Ireland, January 17, 1764. He held a commission
  in the Irish Volunteers, after studying at Dublin University and being
  admitted as a barrister. His sympathy with the patriots and his
  brilliant professional defense of members of the United Irishmen led
  to his arrest after the uprising and his confinement in prison for
  some time. After his release he was re-arrested in Portugal, whither
  he had gone for safety, and was imprisoned on the complaint of the
  British Government. Secretly taken to France, he finally came to New
  York, arriving here July 4, 1806. He then practised stenography, as
  well as his profession of the law, ranking second only to Thomas
  Lloyd, the great reporter of Congress, as a shorthand writer. His
  notes furnished the basis of many volumes of reports. But as a lawyer
  he was especially successful and made a reputation for wit,
  forcefulness, ability and integrity. His daughter married a son of
  Theobold Wolf Tone. When Sampson removed to Washington in 1825, he was
  presented with an address from the citizens of New York, among the
  signers being James Kent and DeWitt Clinton.

  “The years after the Revolution were fruitful of steady Irish
  arrivals, without much of great note occurring. A careful study of the
  statistics of the first third of the nineteenth century, so far as
  they are available, would doubtless be productive of good results. By
  1833 there were 40,000 Irish-born residents here, it was then
  estimated. This growth had been gradual, but hardly remarked, and
  certainly was not expected. This may well be realized when we know
  that the graveyard in the rear of St. Peter’s Church answered all the
  purposes of burial for the Irish Catholics at the outset, and, until
  old St. Patrick’s site was bought from St. Peter’s Church in 1801, to
  serve for a general Catholic burial ground. It is also worthy of note
  that no move for a larger cemetery was made until 1826, when the site
  of the present Cathedral was bought at a cost of $5,500 for that
  purpose by the parishes of St. Peter’s, St. Patrick’s and St. Mary’s,
  but was abandoned after a few years’ trial as being too far out in the
  country. Of course, a tremendous tide of Irish immigration set in
  after the famine years of 1846, 1847 and 1848. But before that time,
  the period of the pioneers had ceased, and that of construction had
  begun. It ended in New York with the arrival of Bishop John Hughes.
  Under his masterful guidance the position of the Irish here completely
  changed; from the dwarfed and apologetic attitude which many of his
  people had theretofore assumed, they rose to man’s estate. He asserted
  their rights and made them realize the justice of their appeal for
  fair treatment and decent consideration. He courageously defended them
  from unjust attack and took every possible occasion to announce the
  splendor of their history and the value to American citizenship of
  their racial characteristics. Impressing himself on the country, and
  finally winning its confidence, he did more than any other one man has
  ever done to make the Irish people an active, useful, aggressive force
  in the community. He pointed out the way by which they have since
  risen from poverty, misery and persecution—from an isolation worse
  than the Ghetto—to a position so commanding as to seem almost
  miraculous.

  “There is an impression that Irish immigration is a matter of only
  half a century. From this hasty sketch we have seen that it is a
  matter of gradual growth, the earlier citizens being successful
  merchants, adding to their capital, the later being the industrious,
  if humble, whom necessity had driven abroad from a land which no other
  force could have induced them to leave. Let us hope that the
  inspiration of this Society may lead some one to undertake this
  seemingly hopeless task of wresting from the past the record of those
  who, today unknown, did the work whose fruits we are all enjoying. All
  honor to the early exiles, whose very names are forgotten, and yet
  who, hungry, exhausted from toil, hated and despised, with their very
  heartstrings throbbing with the grief of a sensitive race justly proud
  of its glorious traditions, then scorned and derided,—yet in silence
  and resignation built deep and solid the foundations of the free
  institutions of our country. Without these pioneers the history of
  Irish genius and its accomplishments would have been the less
  glorious, but without them there would have been as well a different
  tale to write of this latest experiment in human freedom. New York
  owes that race a particular debt of gratitude, which gave to the State
  its first Governor, George Clinton, the son of a County Longford
  emigrant, and his kinsman, DeWitt Clinton, the father of the Erie
  Canal; which gave to the city its first mayor, James Duane, an
  Irishman’s son; and which gave to the city fame as the scene of the
  first successful attempt to conquer a way over the waters by the use
  of steam, when the son of a Kilkenny man, Robert Fulton, saw the
  fruition of his dreams as the _Clermont_ sailed the Hudson, August 11,
  1807.

  “Irishmen and their sons have always been fond of the city which to
  them symbolized the freedom and opportunity of the West. New York has
  been the haven of their hopes. Here their eyes, still dim with tears
  at the thought of Erin, first saw the glimmerings of hope and
  confidence. She has honored and enriched their sons, and they have not
  been ungrateful nor unworthy. From tens of thousands of Irish hearts,
  when the hour for the closing of their earthly pilgrimage was near at
  hand, has gone up an aspiration for her continued prosperity who had
  not forgotten the stranger within her gates. Many an Irishman has
  voiced the wish which Diedrich Knickerbocker was represented as
  uttering as the expression of the Dutchman’s love: ‘Haply this frail
  compound of dust, which while alive may have given birth to nothing
  but unprofitable weeds, may form a humble sod of the valley, whence
  may spring many a sweet wild flower to adorn my beloved island of
  Mannahata!’”


Judge Dowling’s address met with hearty applause and he received many
compliments upon the masterly manner with which he handled the difficult
subject assigned him.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: “Ladies and Gentlemen, I have much pleasure
in announcing to you that the next speaker of the evening, who comes
from the garden spot of the Middle West and who will respond to the
toast of ‘The Irish Pioneers of the West and Their Descendants,’ is the
Hon. Maurice T. Moloney, Ex-Attorney General of the State of Illinois.”


Hon. Maurice T. Moloney:


  “_Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the American Irish Historical
  Society_:


“The subject suggested for me to talk on, ‘The Pioneer Irish of the West
and Their Descendants,’ is one of great latitude, yet it is one that has
not been historically treated as it deserves. I hope, however, in the
short time I propose to devote to it, I will not fall into the same line
of thought as did one of Moore’s characters. In the Veiled Prophet of
Korassan, the great chamberlain, Fadladeen, when about to criticise the
young poet’s story, said: ‘In order to convey with clearness my opinion
of the story this young man has related, it is necessary to take a
review of all the stories that have ever’—and when at this point he was
interrupted by the good Princess, he became mortified at not being
allowed to show how much he knew about everything but the subject
immediately before him. Bearing in mind, then, Fadladeen’s misadventure,
still, we should not be unmindful of our migration hither, and some of
the causes that led to it.

“The successive misfortunes that have overtaken that unfortunate people
ever since Nicholas Brekespear gave a quit-claim deed of them to Henry
II constitute even in the blood-stained pages of English history some of
the greatest tragedies of ancient or modern times, and should lead some
at least of those good people who believe in future rewards and
punishments to consign that same Brekespear to a warm abode.

“It is needless, no doubt, to tell Irishmen or their descendants, or
those interested in Irish history, of the many migrations from that
country. During the latter part of the seventeenth and the first part of
the eighteenth centuries, hundreds of thousands of them filled the
continental armies and many other thousands, young and old, were
banished to the West Indies and the colonies, as helots, under the
direction of that brutal, canting knave, Cromwell, and others. I will
call your attention, however, for a few moments only, to some of the
migrations of the nineteenth century.

“I find on an examination of the Report of the Devon Commission to
Parliament in 1845, that in the decade from 1831 to 1841, 430,963
emigrants left Ireland. I further find from an examination of Irish
Immigration Statistics, that in the following decade from 1841 to 1851,
1,508,454 left the Island, and from 1851 to 1907, 4,130,015 persons
emigrated from that unfortunate country, making a total leaving the
Island in seventy odd years of 6,069,432. The present population of that
country is about four and a half millions—a little less. What a terrible
indictment of England and her seven centuries of oppression! No language
that I am capable of using could more eloquently depict her continued
infamies than that contained in these statistics.

“Of course, all of these people did not come to this country. Some went
to other countries, especially to the Antipodes, but the great bulk of
them came to the Great Republic, where many thousands of their kith and
kin had preceded them.

[Illustration:

  HON. HUGH McCAFFREY.

  Philadelphia, President McCaffrey File Co.

  Vice-President of the Society for Pennsylvania.
]

“It would be interesting as well as instructive to follow up and trace
the careers and fortunes of those Irish exiles and their descendants who
thronged the shores and trod the soil of the Republic. It has never been
done so far as I know. McGee, in the fifties, and Maguire, in the
sixties, each wrote a small volume on the subject, and they are of some
value to the student of history. Of this great swarm, how many crossed
the Alleghanies and steered their course for the West? It is difficult
to say. We have not even approximately correct data on the subject.

“I think, however, I am safe in saying that half of those who came to
this country within the last named period did so. In the Middle West, in
the great states of Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois and Iowa,—indeed,
in all the great western states—there is not a county, city or village
where they or their descendants are not to be found in goodly numbers.
Thank Heaven! race suicide has not as yet overtaken them.

“Maguire, in his work written in the sixties, advised his countrymen to
settle in the West, especially in the state of California. His advice,
no doubt, carried great weight and influenced many of them in seeking
Western homes.

“I remember, as a boy in Ireland, reading his lectures on the subject,
and subsequently, after graduating at the University of Virginia, I
determined to go to California, but straightened conditions intervening,
I was compelled to remain in Illinois. Hence, I am fairly familiar with
the people of that great State, and I think the history of the Irish
there would be fairly typical of them in other Western States.

“And now I think I hear you ask—what of them? What have they done, and
what are they doing, in what many of you Eastern gentlemen are pleased
to call the ‘wild and woolly West.’ To be frank, taking into
consideration their old home conditions, and the circumstances attending
their coming, they are doing and have done fairly well. They were mostly
of the tenant farming class and day laborers. Manufacturing in Ireland
long prior to this time ceased to be a factor, having been either
abolished, or prevented by successive English Parliaments. They were of
necessity very poor, they and their forebears for centuries having been
plundered by heartless tyrants. No people prefer indigence and want to
prosperity. It was artificially enforced poverty that compelled them to
emigrate.

“On arriving in the West, therefore, they were for the most part forced
to occupy the hard lot of the unskilled laborer, and I may say without
fear of contradiction, what they undertook to do they did well. They dug
our great canals, built our great lines of railroads, erected our
telegraph lines from Chicago to San Francisco and helped to operate
them. They engaged in farming and stock raising and have been successful
in both. There is not a public utility in the West whose physical
structure at least does not owe its existence in the main to Irish
hands; and let it not be forgotten, too, that gradually, as these men
were able to put by a little of their hard earnings, they tried to
elevate themselves and their children in the various walks of life. They
did not rest content with their lot. They knew their natural
capabilities and tried to and did improve them. Many of them, too, were
men of initiative. Of course, the rich and the learned, as a rule, were
not among them. People of that kind do not have to leave their country
to seek homes in other climes. Labor, however, manual or otherwise, is
no disgrace; rather is it a badge of respectability.

             “‘Honor and shame from no condition rise,
             Act well your part, there all the honor lies.’

“Of course many of them,—alas, too many,—fell by the way.

“As to the work done by our people in the West, take as an illustration
the Illinois & Michigan Canal, which begins at Chicago on the southern
bend of Lake Michigan and enters the Illinois River at La Salle, a
distance of a hundred miles. From its inception to its close the work
was mainly done by Irish emigrants. It has been to Illinois and the West
a great benefit. Not only was this great work done by the labor of
Irishmen, but its successful accomplishment in a financial way was due
to the exertions of one of them. In 1842 work on the canal had to be
abandoned because of the financial condition of the State Treasury. At
that time the counties of La Salle, Grundy and De Kalb constituted a
Senatorial District, and a young Irishman twenty-six years of age, one
Michael Ryan, was elected State Senator from there. He was, even at that
early age, easily the peer of any man in the West. So thoroughly did he
master the subject both as to the necessities of the canal and its
resources that he introduced and carried through the State Legislature,
not without opposition, however, a bill enabling the State to borrow one
million, six hundred thousand dollars, to complete the work. The
Governor at the time, recognizing his great ability, appointed him and a
Mr. Oakley agents for the State to proceed to London and borrow that
sum—no small amount for those days. They succeeded in doing so. It is
said of him (and there are those still living in my home town who knew
him well and speak of him with affection) that he was a brilliant man,
kind and courteous, an honest man. To him did the State of Illinois
mainly owe its success in raising the means to complete that great
undertaking.

“Another leading Irishman in Illinois in those days was one William
Reddick, a State Senator for many years, a leading temperance advocate,
and a man of whom any people might be proud. He left a large fortune to
the city of Ottawa for library purposes. Many of the younger emigrants
learned trades and became skilled workmen. Many of them engaged in the
mercantile business, at the beginning in a small way, but eventually
became prosperous. So, too, did they engage in manufacturing. Many of
them owned coal mines and of course many, very many, were miners. The
Kilgubbin coal shaft, as it was called, a valuable property in the
county I reside in, was owned and operated by one Nicholas Duncan, a
Cork man.

“Of course, of the hundreds of thousands of Irishmen who have lived and
still live with their descendants in the great city of Chicago, it is
not possible for me to give more than a passing glance, and say that
they are among the leading business men, lawyers, doctors and financiers
of that great metropolis. Volumes might be written about them.

“There were not many professional men among those early emigrants. There
was one, however, who deserves special mention. His name was E. G. Ryan.
He was born in Dublin and came to Illinois in the thirties. He practised
law in that State and was recognized at once as being among the leaders
of the bar. He afterwards moved to Wisconsin and there became Chief
Justice of the Court of Last Resort of that State. He was a profound
lawyer, a regular encyclopædia of learning. He was probably the greatest
jurist of the West, and there are those who say that he would bear
favorable comparison with the great John Marshall. He has been dead for
some few years.

“Very many of the descendants of those pioneers entered the different
professions. In law and medicine they easily hold their own in the West.
The ablest, all-around lawyer I ever met was Thomas A. Moran of Chicago,
for a time Judge of the Circuit and Appellate Courts in that State. He,
too, has passed out into the Great Beyond.

“Another who made history might also be mentioned.

“In early days, as we say out West, one John H. Mulkey, then about
twenty years old, came to the southern part of the State of Illinois
from the State of Tennessee, as an itinerant Methodist preacher. Being a
man of good sense, he soon abandoned the ministry and took up the study
and afterwards the practice of the law. He met with great success. He
had a splendid career. He was elected to the Supreme Court and served as
an honored member of that body for a number of years. In 1896, while I
represented the State, he came to my office (he was then practising law)
and sought a continuance of a case in the Supreme Court. I readily
consented, and he dictated to my stenographer the agreement for a
continuance. While he was doing so it occurred to me that he had a very
peculiar name indeed, and when he got through I said rather abruptly, I
confess: ‘Judge, where in the world did you get that name? I can’t think
to what nation your ancestors could have belonged.’ He looked at me,
laughed, and said, ‘I am as Irish as you are, but an ancestor changed
the good old Irish name of Mulcahey to Mulkey, and’ he added, ‘he didn’t
improve it.’

“Mulkey had a high sense of honor. He had a solicitous regard for the
reputation of his profession. He was a scholarly man, a conscientious
jurist. He detested a dishonest man and especially a dishonest lawyer.
Apropos of this, it may not be uninteresting if I relate a few of the
circumstances attending a dissenting opinion which he wrote while on the
Bench. It seems that two men, one named Hughes and the other Appleton,
were neighbors and both practised law in Chicago. Hughes conveyed the
title to a piece of property worth eight to ten thousand dollars to
Appleton, without consideration. The latter was merely a trustee.
Appleton disposed of the property and converted the proceeds to his own
use. The Attorney-General of Illinois filed an information in the
Supreme Court setting up these facts and asking for the disbarment of
Appleton. On a final hearing that Court denied the application on the
ground that the relation of attorney and client did not exist between
them. Mulkey not being able to agree with the majority of the Court
wrote a unique dissenting opinion, in which among other things, he said:
‘This defense so forcibly reminds me of the old story of the profane
bishop who had the good fortune to be a duke also, I cannot refrain from
telling it. An acquaintance who happened to overhear him using profane
language asked him how it was that he, being a bishop, could be guilty
of swearing. “Ah, my friend,” replied his reverence, “I swear as a duke
and not as a bishop.” “But,” retorted the other, “when the devil comes
to get the duke, what will become of the bishop?” So, in this case, when
his Satanic Majesty calls for Appleton the trustee, I should like to
know what will become of Appleton the attorney.’ I might add that some
years after his admission to the bar, he became a Catholic, and died in
that faith.

“I wonder how many Irish names have been mutilated like that of the good
judge. I fear too many.

“In the management of railroads, our people have excelled in the West.
The children of two Irishmen, brothers, named Egan, born within about
thirty miles of where I reside, have been important, if not chief
factors in the management of many railroads. They have been connected
with the Grand Trunk, the Illinois Central and other roads. I remember
well, in 1894, when the great strike, almost an incipient insurrection,
occurred in Chicago, that one of these Egans was selected by the
officers and directors of all the railroads centering in that great
city, to take entire control of their properties and manage them during
the strike. This was quite a tribute to the son of a poor Irishman.
Another, still comparatively young, might be mentioned. He was born in
the town I live in. I remember him as a poor boy, a brakeman on a branch
line running through our city. His name is Patrick Houlihan. A brochure
has been written on his career and is entitled, I believe, ‘From Water
Carrier to General Manager.’ He has on different lines, successively
occupied the positions between that of water boy and superintendent, and
is now general manager of the Toledo, St. Louis & Western and the
Chicago & Alton Railroad Companies, with headquarters at Chicago. He is
bright and brainy, with years of usefulness before him. He is a credit
to our race.

“In literature, we have fairly well held our own. I do not mean to say
that we have written as many novels, good bad and indifferent, as
others, but the Rileys, the Finnertys, the Sullivans, the Clearys and
Dunns, and men and women of such names have left their impress upon our
literature. Many of you no doubt have met and all must have with
pleasure, read that Western product, the discoverer of Mr. Dooley and
Archie Avenue road, that droll, inimitable writer of ‘dialect’ a
philosopher in his way—Finley Peter Dunn, who like other good men, has
recently gone wrong, in having against the advice of Greeley and all the
sages of the republic, migrated backwards as it were until now Gotham
claims him for her own.

“And now a few words as to the tillers of the soil.

“Many of those emigrants settled upon the lands of the West, though
under disadvantageous circumstances. There are many townships in my
county, and in adjoining counties, and indeed scattered all over the
West, that have been settled almost exclusively by them. Those lands are
now worth on an average $150 per acre. Measurably, this is true of the
Middle West. It is literally true of Illinois.

“Nebraska settlement, as it was called, embracing all that territory
from Kansas to Canada, and from the Missouri to the Rocky Mountains, was
thrown open for settlement in 1854. A large number of Irish were among
the early settlers. In 1857 a convention was held in Buffalo to perfect
plans for establishing Irish colonies in the West. Delegates assembled
from all over the country. Three large colonies started as a result of
this convention—one led by Father Trecy founded St. Patrick’s Colony in
Nebraska, now Jackson. Another, under Father Powers, of Pennsylvania,
went to Missouri, and a third went to Minnesota. In the latter state,
additional Irish colonies have been established. They endured almost
untold trials and hardships in a new and wild country. Father Trecy’s
colony celebrated its Golden Jubilee in July, 1907, a dozen of the
original settlers being present. Greeley County, Nebraska, is
practically an Irish county, being settled almost exclusively by
Irishmen, especially is this true of the towns of Greeley Center,
O’Connor, Spalding and O’Neill.

“Instances of this kind might be indefinitely extended. Notwithstanding
this fact, we have been criticised for not going in larger numbers upon
the broad prairies and fertile lands of the West. I admit the farmer’s
life is the ideal one, but it took something more than hands and limbs
and brains, too, to go upon a farm. It required money even when land was
cheapest. How could a family in Ireland, turned out on the roadside by
the crowbar brigade, who with the greatest difficulty could scrape
enough together to pay their passage to America, be expected upon their
arrival to purchase land and agricultural implements, to go farming
with? It was hardly within the possibilities. Even if the father came
alone, as he often did, he was compelled to go to work on the first
opportunity to provide for his immediate wants and save something to
send to the half-starving family at home or pay the passage to America.
And, if it was a son or daughter who managed to come, they were ever
striving to send for one more of the family or likely enough, to send
the greater part of their hard earnings to pay the exorbitant rent of
the heartless landlord. I know whereof I speak. I am a living witness of
those happenings. As a boy, I was compelled to leave the land of my
birth, and I can say without affectation, that I never experienced more
real joy than I did when making my first remittance to Ireland. Though I
knew the ultimate destination of most of it was the landlord’s pocket,
still I think I had more pleasure in sending than he had in receiving
it.

                “‘More true joy Marcellus exiled feels,
                Than Caesar with a Senate at his heels.’

“Of the gold seekers of ’49 who rushed to the coast, many of them were
Irish. Many settled down in different parts of that slope and as you
know, many of them became millionaires. I need only mention the names of
Flood, O’Brien, Mackey, Phelan and others, to conjure up visions of
wealth. But, _cui bono_. The richest people are not always the most
interesting even when the wealth is honestly acquired, and here I may
remark (though a little foreign to the subject) if the wealth of many of
our multi-millionaires were tomorrow turned into the National Treasury,
it would not begin to compensate for the moral shame and degradation
their practices have brought on the republic. Kerosene colleges will
never make straight, or light, Heaven’s pathway.

“When the greatest crime of the nineteenth century was about to be
perpetrated in the dismemberment of this Union the Irish people of the
West, in goodly numbers, rushed to its defense and sealed with their
blood, their love of the republic. You all, no doubt, have heard of a
Sheridan, a Shields, a Corcoran, a Lawler, and others of the West, who
died that the Union might live. Ingratitude has never been the failing
of Irishmen. Gratitude for favors, even small ones, adherence to
principle, through good and evil times, have ever been characteristic of
the race. Prior to that war, the hereditary enemy of our people despised
America. Since its termination, they have hated, but fear it. You know
Gladstone, when Jefferson Davis was inaugurated President, exclaimed
that a new nation had been born. We may in the future as we sometimes
have in the past, send de-natured Americans to London, but no occasional
slobbering over the great republic by perfidious Albion can disguise
that hatred. Napoleon said, scratch a Russian and you will find a
Tartar, scratch an Englishman or an Irishman of the garrison, and almost
invariably you will find a hater of America.

“In conclusion, let me say, and I say it with some pride, but in no
boastful spirit, that the Irish people in the West, though having to
struggle from the lowest rung of the ladder, are physically,
intellectually, morally, and I might add, financially, the peers of
their neighbors. They are not a dying race. I wish some competent hand
would write their history.”

Mr. Moloney’s address was greeted with much applause and cheering, and
at this point Senator Carter of Montana arrived in the hall and was
escorted to his place at the head table by the Secretary-General and Mr.
Moseley.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: “We are honored this evening by the presence
of one of our most earnest members, whose distinguished services to his
country in the United States Senate and earnest and unselfish devotion
to the work of our Society endears him to all. It is with pleasure I
introduce Hon. Thomas H. Carter, United States Senator from Montana.”

SENATOR CARTER: “_Mr. Toastmaster, Fellow Members of the Society, Ladies
and Gentlemen_: I am billed upon this program to deliver a ‘Capital
Welcome.’ I at once disclaim ability to do that.

[Illustration:

  RIGHT REVEREND M. C. LENIHAN.

  Bishop of Great Falls, Montana.

  Vice-President of the Society for Montana.
]

“‘Capital Welcome’ seems to imply a good or excellent welcome, and that
accomplishment is beyond me,—but I most cheerfully extend to you a
cordial welcome to this, the Capital City of our common country, and I
sincerely hope that as you each depart from here, you will not feel
impelled to write upon the register a sentiment similar to that written
by one of our distinguished fellow-countrymen upon leaving a
watering-place in England. Each of the party was called upon to write on
the register of the hostelry a sentiment, and one bright member wrote
these words: ‘I came here for change and rest; the porter has the
change, the landlord the rest.’

“The man who wrote that was not the same man whom Brother Lee desires me
to tell about, who described the kind of a man that Casey was. The man
at the head of the table said ‘What kind of a man is Casey?’ ‘Well,’
says Murphy, ‘I’ll tell you what kind of a man Casey is. I went over to
Casey’s house. Says he to me, “Murphy, will you have a drink?” I says,
“Of course I will, Mr. Casey.” He says, “Murphy, shall I pour or will
you pour?” “Pour yourself,” says I, “Mr. Casey.” He says, “All right,
tell me when to stop.” He poured out a drop or two, and out of
politeness I said “Stop, Casey,” and Casey stopped. That’s the kind of a
man Casey is.’

“This Society needs no welcome to the Capitol City of this nation.
Wheresoever you may turn in viewing our parks or avenues or historic
halls, you will see in bronze and in marble mute evidences of the
appreciation expressed by a grateful people of the achievements and
contributions of the Irish and the Irish Americans, in building up and
maintaining this great Republic.

“In LaFayette Square, immediately in front of the White House, is a
statue of Andrew Jackson, a renowned President of the United States who
was the son of an Irishman. Out in the northwest part of the city, but a
few days ago, we assembled to unveil an equestrian statue to a man whom
General Grant pronounced the greatest soldier of any time, the son of an
Irishman, Philip Sheridan. Come down but a little farther and you will
find a square adorned with trees and flowers, and in its center a
beautiful statue to Admiral Farragut, of Irish blood on his mother’s
side. Over in Iowa circle, to the northeast of this point, is the statue
of General John A. Logan, the son of an Irishman. Pennsylvania Avenue
has been gazed upon for years and years by the sightless eyes of a
bronze statue of General John A. Rawlins, the confidential friend of the
peerless victor of Appomattox. General Rawlins was of Irish extraction.

“Across Pennsylvania Avenue from this hotel is a great building in which
throbs the heart of the mighty postal system of the country for which we
will expend two hundred and thirty millions of dollars during this
fiscal year. The first Postmaster-General admitted to the Cabinet of a
President was John Barry, the son of an Irishman. And that reminds me of
the way Cabinet officers are selected. It is generally supposed that the
President’s Cabinet is organized in conformity with law, but such is not
the fact. One day Postmaster Barry received a note reading thus:
‘Tomorrow and hereafter you will attend Cabinet meetings.’ Signed
‘Andrew Jackson.’ It was that which established the custom of calling in
the Postmaster-General as one of the counselors of the President of the
United States, and that custom has been maintained to this day.

“Go through the hall of statuary in our Capitol, and there you will find
in marble men of proud fame in this country’s history—General Louis
Cass, Henry Wilson, General Shields and others, making a long roll of
men of Irish birth or lineage which I will not undertake to call here
tonight.

“Just across the Potomac River, when the life of the nation was
assailed, Colonel Corcoran of New York was the first to move forward
with the Stars and Stripes. When the Capitol was menaced from the
southwest, ‘Phil’ Sheridan was there with his cavalry to meet the enemy.
When the fate of the nation was trembling in the balance upon the
historic field of Gettysburg, the Union Army was directed by the
masterful mind of General Meade of Irish blood.

“I will not go back to the early days of the country’s history. It is
sufficient to say that in a parliamentary inquiry as to the conduct of
the war against the colonies by a committee of the House of Commons of
which Edmund Burke was a member, this interesting fact was brought
forth. In the cross-examination of Major General Robertson, Mr. Burke
asked the question, ‘Of what elements is the Continental Army composed?’
Robertson said, ‘On authority of General Lee, I inform you that more
than half the Continental Army is made up of Irishmen.’

“The illustrious names that adorn our country’s history are entitled to
imperishable renown because of great deeds well done in that
Revolutionary struggle. Among them is a list of men of Irish birth,
beginning with the man who struck the first blow, General Sullivan, and
continuing along the line to the close of the war. And when I think of
the contributions made, the common sufferings endured, and the
sacrifices made without limit as to time or circumstance, I say the
Irish and their descendants are entitled to the privilege of claiming
with proud confidence that this is their own country.

“The history of Ireland is confined to an island with its curious, sad
and heroic circumstances, but the history of the Irish people is limited
only by the inhabitable portions of the globe.

“I have been, as you have been, chagrined to perceive the disposition to
rob these people of the credit which is truly and justly their due. Who
can read of Burke and Goldsmith and Johnson and Sheridan and Tyndale as
English authors without a feeling that some one has been guilty of grand
larceny and misrepresentation.

“Who can read the page of history which places Arthur Wellesley as an
Englishman without feeling that the hero of Waterloo has been misplaced?
Why deny to this island, bereft of the right to control its own destiny,
the privilege of claiming the honor and distinction properly due to the
achievements of its distinguished sons?

“It is desirable that a society like unto this should be established in
England to change the trend which leads to error and confusion. What we
undertake here should be undertaken there. I am glad that this Society
has taken up the work of developing the history of the Irish and their
descendants in the United States, for it is a great and glorious feature
in American history. While proud of the past, while proud of the
achievements of those whose deeds we record, it is important, I think,
that we should at the same time bear in mind the duty we owe to the
future.

“I would that the Americans of Irish birth and descent in this country
could unite their energies and make of this force in American life a
leading force for higher conceptions of civic duty, a force looking to
better living, a force working for a civilization such as has not been
dreamed of by those who have struggled in the past. This we may do while
recording that which has gone by with fidelity and truth. Let us be true
to ourselves by working for such conditions as will make our race more
distinguished henceforth in its achievements than it has been in the
splendid work of the past.”

PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: The next and last toast of the evening is
“Advantages of Historical Research to Irish Americans.” The response
will be made by a noble American of Irish ancestry, who comes from the
granary belt of the great Northwest, the land of Sitting Bull and the
brave Sioux, where the ardent flames of patriotism burn with the
intensity of true Americanism.

                   What means this gathering here tonight,
                     What Spirit moves along
                   This crowded hall and touching light
                     Each heart among the throng
                   Awakes as tho’ a trumpet blast
                     Had sounded in their ears
                   The recollection of the past,
                   The memories of the years.
   Oh, ’tis the spirit of the West, the spirit of the Celt,
   The breed that spurned the alien breast and every wrong has felt,
   And still tho’ far from fatherland, we never can forget
   To tell ourselves with heart and hand,
                   We’re Irish yet,
                       We’re Irish yet.

I take great pleasure in introducing to you, ladies and gentlemen, Hon.
Robert J. Gamble, United States Senator from South Dakota.

SENATOR GAMBLE: _Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen_: I accept the
kindly and humorous felicitations of your President. I admit I hail from
South Dakota, once the land of the Sioux, of Red Cloud and Sitting Bull.
In these later years, however, it has been transformed with marvelous
rapidity into an empire of wealth, of productiveness, of social and
civic development, and with ideals at least equal to those of any in the
Sisterhood of States. In her wonderful prosperity she has been as
jealous of the one as the other. In her Constitution and in her laws she
has sought to make liberty secure, to foster and provide for the
education of her children, to encourage the highest ideals of
citizenship, to inspire a patriotism worthy of the opportunities of her
people. Along all of these lines we feel South Dakota has met with a
high degree of success. She stands almost the lowest in the percentage
of illiteracy of her population. Pauperism is scarcely observable.
Wealth and comfort are very generally diffused amongst her people. Her
schools and colleges are equal to the necessities of the state. The door
of opportunity is open to all. For more than a decade she has produced
each year more wealth per capita than any other state in the Union.
(Applause.)

Mr. President, at this late hour I give you assurance of brevity in what
I have to say. I appreciate very much the compliment of your invitation,
and indeed it is a great pleasure to be present on this occasion and to
respond to the toast to which I have been assigned.

The history of Ireland in itself is a sad one, but the high purpose and
invincible courage of her manhood and her womanhood, their high ideals
and devotion to liberty and to national integrity, have been fraught
with blessings and have brought encouragement to human liberty the world
over. (Applause.)

Within the circumscribed limits of their own nationality success rarely
crowned the patriotic efforts and heroic struggle for liberty of the
Irish people. Their field of activity, however, has not been confined to
the land of their birth, and has been limited only wherever humanity has
asserted itself against tyranny and in a struggle for better conditions
and for orderly liberty.

America owes a wonderful debt of gratitude to the Irish race. We must
recognize that preceding American independence there was a strong
element of our population composed of Irish Americans.

Among the strongest advocates for American independence were Irishmen,
or the descendants of Irishmen. Hancock and Rutledge and the Carrolls
and their co-workers contributed vastly to the development of a National
spirit. The work of these strong, patriotic and efficient men had much
to do with drawing the colonies together in united effort and cementing
their interests in the common cause. Their voices had long been raised
in protest against the Mother Country before the musketry was heard at
Lexington. These brave and courageous men, and their associates, with
their large vision and patriotic purpose, pointed out the way and
crystalized the sentiment for national independence. The work they
performed for the cause of national independence, though different in
character, was as important in its way as that of the actual
participants in the field, of the general or the soldier.

As indicative of the high character of the Irish race, and of their
activities and large influence in the formative period of our National
history it is gratifying and with a sense of pride in this presence to
state that in the First Continental Congress, with a membership of
fifty-four, eleven were Irish or of Irish descent. The same race has
also to its credit three presidents of the Republic whose ancestors came
from the Emerald Isle. And Roosevelt, an honored member of this Society,
not only our President, but the most distinguished citizen of the world,
takes pride in the fact that he can trace his lineage to this
indomitable people. (Applause.)

Of the membership of the Continental Congress that put forth the
immortal Declaration of Independence, twenty per cent was Irish or of
Irish descent. The hand of Thompson that first transcribed it upon
parchment was Irish; the first signature that was placed to it as
President was that of John Hancock, an Irishman-American; and when those
immortal words were read for the first time to the assembled multitude
from the balcony of Continental Hall at Philadelphia, it was by the
voice of an Irishman, Mr. Nixon; and when it was placed in type for the
first time it was by one Dunlap, an Irish printer.

In the spring of 1777, when Congress appointed eighteen
brigadier-generals, six of those who were thus commissioned were Irish
by birth or descent. Among the number were the dashing and brilliant Mad
Anthony Wayne and the strong and courageous Clinton. I need only speak
of the accomplished Montgomery, whose valor has been justly praised and
who died a hero’s death upon the plains of Quebec, or of Sullivan, the
splendid leader and the associate of Washington, upon whom the latter
leaned more than upon any other, and for whose great service the thanks
of Congress were extended; of Knox and Stark and many others who were
ideal and successful leaders in the great Revolutionary struggle. It has
been asserted, but undoubtedly with very much exaggeration, that half of
the Continental Army were Irish or of Irish descent. Even if this be not
true it must be admitted that the race had a large representation in the
Army, and it speaks well for their patriotism and devotion to the cause
of American Independence.

The Irish race I think can take a just pride in the accomplishments of
its people, not only as statesmen and leaders in contributing vastly
towards shaping the policies of the colonies in the formative period of
our history with a view to the ultimate forming of the Federal Union,
and also in leadership and on men in the field of battle.

But it was not alone upon the land that the heroism of the race asserted
itself in the cause for National Independence. If not the first, at
least among the first naval fights of the Revolution was the capture of
the British ship _Margaretta_ at Machias Bay on the Coast of Maine on
May 11, 1775. The Americans were commanded by Captain O’Brien, the son
of an Irish immigrant. This victory has frequently been called “The
Lexington of the Seas.”

It was John Barry, a native of Ireland, who received one of the first
naval commissions from Congress. Through his ability and leadership and
his many well earned victories he brought the highest credit to America
upon the seas. Commodore Barry today is justly called “The Father of the
American Navy.” He was the great naval commander of the Revolution. I
might name many other distinguished officers of this nationality who
rendered conspicuous service to their country and added to the fame of
the Navy in the war of the Revolution.

Irish womanhood also gave evidence of its devotion and heroism in the
person of Mollie Pitcher, who took the place at the cannon of her fallen
husband and is accorded a hero’s place in the battle of Monmouth.

The devotion of those of Irish blood did not exhaust itself in the cause
of the Revolution alone. In the War of 1812 it contributed some of its
most conspicuous figures. It was Jackson at New Orleans, Commodore
Stewart on the sea with his _Constitution_, McDonough on Lake Champlain
and Perry on Lake Erie that won imperishable glory for the American Army
and Navy in that War.

In the war with Mexico the men of this race had representatives in the
persons of Generals Kearney and Shields. The latter also received the
exceptional distinction of having been elected to a seat in the United
States Senate on three different occasions in separate elections from
three different states.

In the recent war, among the most illustrious names is that of General
Sheridan, the son of an Irishman, and although less conspicuous others
of the same blood rendered high service to their country, and amongst
them are such honored names as Meade, Logan, Meagher, Mulligan, Shields
and Corcoran.

It is no idle boast to assert that the names of the men of Irish blood
adorn the most conspicuous pages of the history of the Republic. They
aided as wise, safe and patriotic counsellors in laying the foundations
of our institutions. They fought with heroism and devotion in the
struggle for independence, both upon the land and upon the sea. In every
trial and test that has come to us in our history they have made willing
and great sacrifice to defend the honor of their country and to
perpetuate and sustain her institutions.

Ireland has contributed much to the Republic. In a high degree the race
has been unselfish. The devotion of the race has not alone been confined
to the United States. It has been frequently and truthfully said though
not always gratefully and freely admitted that she gave a Wellington to
England and in these later years she has also contributed a Wolsey, a
Roberts and a Kitchener. To France she gave McMahon, and to Spain an
O’Donnell.

Many of her brave and devoted men followed Bolivar in South America and
aided materially in laying the foundations of the Republic in the
Southern Hemisphere.

On every field of human endeavor the Irish name has a conspicuous place.
In statesmanship she has given Burke, who enriched our language with his
oratory. She supplied also Phillips, Grattan and O’Connell.

In literature she has been most generous in giving to the world
Goldsmith, Moore, Collins, Knowles, Sheridan and a host of others. In
the sciences she has contributed Lardner, Rowe, Proctor, Tyndall,
Faraday and our own Fulton.

Nor has she been lacking in the field of Art, but America adopted as her
own the gifted St. Gaudens. In philosophy and theology she has many
distinguished names.

Mr. President, in conclusion I would state I believe “The advantages of
Historical research to Irish Americans” will give them a more just
appreciation of the Irish character, of the services they have rendered
in founding, sustaining and perpetuating our institutions and in
maintaining the highest ideals of our common country.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: One final word. The Secretary-General wishes
to say something, and I know it will interest you all.

SECRETARY-GENERAL LEE: Mr. Chairman, I move you that the thanks of the
American Irish Historical Society be tendered the speakers of the
evening for their excellent services in our behalf, and that the entire
address of each be printed in the Journal.


  Motion carried by unanimous vote.


SECRETARY-GENERAL LEE: Mr. Chairman, I move you that the thanks of the
Society and its invited guests are justly due and are hereby tendered
Mr. Thomas J. Talty, Manager of the Hotel Raleigh, for his careful
personal attention to the banquet and its details, and for his uniform
courtesy to members and guests.


  Motion carried by unanimous vote.


SECRETARY-GENERAL LEE: Mr. Chairman, I move you that the thanks of the
Society be tendered to our fellow-member, Mr. Henry L. Joyce, Manager of
the Marine Department of the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey, to
Mr. W. C. Hope, General Passenger Agent of said Railroad, and to Mr. P.
Wilfred Heroy, Eastern Passenger Agent of said Railroad, for their
courtesy to members and guests of the Society and for their successful
efforts to make our trip by special train pleasant and comfortable.


  Motion carried by unanimous vote.


PRESIDENT-GENERAL QUINLAN: This ends the proceedings of the Eleventh
Annual Banquet of the Society. I thank you one and all for your
attendance. The next annual dinner will take place in the city of New
York, and we hope you will all be with us there and that the attendance
will be even greater than tonight.

There being no further business before the Society, I declare this
meeting adjourned.


                              COMMITTEES.

The Committee in charge of the entire proceedings in Washington were as
follows:


                           DINNER COMMITTEE.

  HON. EDWARD A. MOSELEY, _Chairman_, Former President-General.
  REAR ADMIRAL JOHN MCGOWAN, Former President-General.
  MICHAEL F. DOOLEY, ESQ., _Treasurer-General_.
  HON. LAWRENCE O. MURRAY.
  PATRICK J. HALTIGAN, ESQ.


                          RECEPTION COMMITTEE.

  MICHAEL W. NORTON, ESQ., Rhode Island.
  HON. JOHN D. CRIMMINS, New York.
  HON. JOSEPH GEOGHEGAN, Utah.
  PATRICK F. MAGRATH, ESQ., New York.
  HON. JOHN F. O’CONNELL, Rhode Island.
  DR. M. F. SULLIVAN, Massachusetts.
  BERNARD J. JOYCE, ESQ., Massachusetts.
  PATRICK CARTER, ESQ., Rhode Island.
  T. VINCENT BUTLER, ESQ., New York.
  JOHN J. DALY, ESQ., New York.
  GEN. D. F. COLLINS, New Jersey.
  FRANCIS I. MCCANNA, ESQ., Rhode Island.
  HON. ALEXANDER C. EUSTACE, New York.
  HON. THOMAS J. LYNCH, Maine.
  GEN. JOHN R. MCGINNESS, Virginia.
  HON. THOMAS M. WALLER, Connecticut.


                                 NOTES.

The entire proceedings of the Reception by President Roosevelt, Annual
Meeting and Eleventh Annual Dinner were stenographically reported by
Miss Viola Follis of Providence, R. I., and by her transcribed. Within a
few days afterwards, a copy of his speech was furnished each speaker, so
that it would come to the hands of the Editor of the _Journal_ exactly
as the speaker wished it finally to read.

The stenographic report and transcription were absolutely complete and
without error.

The floral decorations on the tables and walls were beautiful and
lavish, and at the termination of the dinner some of the nice pieces
were sent to the quarters of our lady guests, while the remainder were
sent to the hospitals.

During the evening music was furnished by a good orchestra. The words of
“Star Spangled Banner,” “Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean,” “Wearing of
the Green,” “Minstrel Boy,” and “Yankee Doodle” were printed on the
program, and the assemblage, accompanied by the musicians, sung these
songs with a will.

[Illustration:

  HON. WILLIAM F. SHEEHAN.

  Of New York City.

  An Honored Member of the Society.
]

A large number of guests left Washington Sunday, January 17th, on the
Royal Blue Line 3 p. m. express for New York, and for their comfort
special cars were attached exclusively for their use. In the dining car
a special dinner was prepared and served under the supervision of
Conductor Lewis A. Herring, which was enjoyed by nearly all who returned
on that train, and he made the occasion enjoyable by pointing out
several interesting bits of scenery _en route_, among which was the
place where Washington crossed the Delaware. The menu was as follows:

                        Broiled Sardines on Toast
                        Blue Points on Half Shell
  Ox Joint, Anglaise                                Consomme, Macedoine
        Celery                                              Olives
                       Baked Mackerel, Royal Sauce
                            Potatoes, Julienne
 Lamb Chops, with Green Peas                       French Pancake, au Rum
                         Prime Roast Beef, au Jus
     Mashed Potatoes                                   Fried Parsnips
                      Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce
   String Beans                                      Spinach, with Egg
                               Claret Punch
                       Chicken Salad, au Mayonnaise
                      Tapioca Pudding, Custard Sauce
     Vanilla Ice Cream                                 Assorted Cake
                               Sugar Wafers
                        Roquefort and Edam Cheese
     Toasted Water Crackers                            Saltine Wafers
                               Black Coffee
                               Benedictine

                                    WASHINGTON, D. C., January 17, 1909.

A special meeting of the American Irish Historical Society was held in
Room 124, Hotel Raleigh, Washington, D. C., this day at 1.30 p. m.,
President-General Quinlan in the chair.

On motion of Mr. Donovan of New York, it was voted to revise the
constitution and by-laws of the Society, and the President-General was
instructed to appoint a committee of five to do this work, they to
report to the Executive Council.

On motion of Mr. T. Vincent Butler of New York, the thanks of the
Society were tendered to the President-General and the Secretary-General
for their efficient services in preparing for “the grandest meeting the
Society has ever held.” Mr. Butler, in support of his motion, made
interesting remarks concerning our fellow-member, President Roosevelt.

The President-General later announced that he had appointed the
following gentlemen members of the Committee to Revise the Constitution
and By-Laws: Messrs. Michael J. Jordan, Patrick J. McCarthy, Joseph T.
Ryan, John E. O’Brien and Thomas Z. Lee.

Short addresses were made by the President-General and several other
members on subjects connected with the welfare of the Society, after
which the meeting adjourned.

                                        THOMAS ZANSLAUR LEE,
                                                    _Secretary-General_.




                     =Historical Notes and Papers.=




                     THE CIVIC VALUE OF MEMORIALS.

              BY MISS MARY A. GREENE OF PROVIDENCE, R. I.

  HONORARY STATE REGENT FOR RHODE ISLAND, NATIONAL SOCIETY DAUGHTERS OF
    THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, GREAT-GREAT-GRANDDAUGHTER OF THOMAS HUGHES,
    CAPTAIN IN THE WAR OF THE REVOLUTION AND MAJOR IN THE WAR OF 1812
    AND AN ORIGINAL MEMBER OF THE RHODE ISLAND SOCIETY OF THE
    CINCINNATI—A MAN OF IRISH PARENTAGE.


Who that visits Italy can fail to be inspired by the ruins of the Forum
and the palaces of the Cæsars on the Palatine? The Italian Government
has done wisely in making its work of excavation a work also of
restoration by replacing as far as possible the statues and monuments of
ancient time in their original positions, and in entrusting visitors to
the care of guides educated for their duties by a university course in
the history and archæology of the Eternal City. Such a guide, after a
whole day spent in enthusiastic descriptions of the temples, public
buildings, rostra and tombs of the Forum, was asked, “How happens it
that you are so very enthusiastic over all this, when it is your duty to
make this round day after day?” Never will the hearer forget his reply
as, drawing himself up to his full height, he exclaimed with the
proudest, loftiest accent, “_I am a Roman_.”

“The grandeur that was Rome” was the spirit of her citizens, their
expression in the life of their city, of their high ideals. When these
ideals failed to inspire, Rome fell.

That which makes a State is the character of its citizens. One of the
strongest influences in the moulding of character is the example of the
heroes of the past. Preservation of the history of those who helped to
make and mould the nation is, therefore, essential to the maintenance of
patriotism. Indeed, it is essential to the true moral development of the
nation,—to the very preservation of the nation.

One great advantage of the memorial tablet and the statue over the printed
page is that the former are seen and understood by all, while the pages
of history are only turned by those who have a certain degree of
education and interest. “What mean ye by these stones?” the children in
the land of Canaan would ask, gazing upon the heap of twelve smooth
stones by the banks of the Jordan. Then would the fathers in Israel
reply, “Because the waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the
Covenant of the Lord, and these stones from the bed of the river are for
a memorial forever of Jehovah’s leadership of his people through the dry
bed of the river into the promised land.”

The historical and patriotic societies of the United States are doing a
much needed work by the erection of tablets and the marking of historic
spots. A want of reverence for those who founded our nation and fought
to establish it; a carelessness as to the lessons to be learned from the
early history of the country; a desecration of places consecrated by the
blood of our heroes, had much to do with making us, in appearance, a
flippant, boastful people, glorying only in the “bigness” of our country
and what our own generation was doing, in short, the boastful Yankee
caricatured by our European kinsmen.

That temper has changed. While the greater seriousness with which the
American people undertake their problems of government is no doubt in
part due to territorial expansion and greater international relations,
credit must also be given to the impressive influence of the memorials
placed in our State houses, our parks, along our streets, commemorating
the worthy deeds of our ancestors.

It is then a direct benefit to the State, and aid to good government, and
to the realization of the highest civic ideals, to place, where all can
see, memorials reciting the virtues and the heroic deeds of men like
Washington, Lincoln, Greene, Sullivan, Sherman and a host of others
whose splendid achievements, in war and in peace, are a part of our
heritage as American citizens, and are the inspiration of our youth to
give also of their best, in talents and in loyal, patriotic effort; to
make our country great in the best sense,—great in the character of its
citizens, great in the accomplishment of high ideals; great in the
enjoyment by all of the blessings of liberty.

Providence, R. I., February 12, 1909.

[Illustration:

  MR. PATRICK CARTER.

  Of Providence. R. I.

  Member of the Executive Council.
]




CARTER DAY NURSERY. GIFT BY MR. PATRICK CARTER, MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE
                   COUNCIL, IN HONOR OF DECEASED SON.

  CEREMONY TAKES PLACE AT HANDSOME BUILDING, CORNER PINE AND BYRON
    STREETS, IN PRESENCE OF CLERGY, PROMINENT BUSINESS MEN AND
    REPRESENTATIVES OF RELIGIOUS DENOMINATIONS.


                       BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL.

In the presence of members of the clergy, prominent business men and
representatives of various religious denominations, the new Day Nursery,
erected at Pine and Byron streets as a memorial to Edward A. Carter, by
his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Carter, was formally transferred to
Bishop Matthew Harkins at 11 o’clock yesterday morning. Previous to this
ceremony there was a low Mass, at which Bishop Harkins was the
celebrant, Rev. Austin Dowling, also a member of the American Irish
Historical Society, acting as his assistant, at which time the building
was blessed.

A large audience assembled in the hall on the second floor to witness
the transfer of the keys, the deed and other documents to the Bishop. It
numbered men and women prominent in the business and social life of the
city, as well as others interested in charitable work.

After Bishop Harkins, wearing the purple robes of his office, had taken
a seat on the stage, with Fr. Dowling on his right and Rev. William Pyne
on his left, Mr. Carter made the following speech in presenting the
structure to the Bishop:


                         MR. CARTER’S ADDRESS.

“Bishop Harkins: In my own name and that of Mrs. Carter I have great
pleasure in handing over to you this morning, as the representative of
Nazareth home and the head of the diocese of Providence, the keys of the
Edward A. Carter Memorial, the receipted bills for its cost and a
paid-up five years’ policy of insurance on the building for $15,000.

“I am sure it is a happy moment for Mrs. Carter and for me; I may say,
the proudest moment of our lives, to be in a position to commemorate in
this way our son who gave such promise in his youth, and who was taken
from us so suddenly.

“A little more than a year ago we laid him away in St. Francis Cemetery
and with him the hopes that we had built upon, but the money which would
have been his to invest in business had he lived we have resolved to lay
aside for his memory in another kind of investment.

“This is our only stipulation—that it be administered prudently,
scientifically, but with mercy and in the spirit of Christian charity.

“We have no fear, Bishop, that the money which we have given to the
Nazareth Home will ever be diverted from the purpose for which we intend
it. We require no bonds from you, for your high standing makes the
ordinary safeguard of business in this case unnecessary. Into whatever
hands you entrust it, we feel certain that they will execute what we
plan.

“You, ladies of the Queen’s Daughters, honor us with your presence here
today. You have presided at the formation of this work; your ideas are
here incorporated and you have pledged yourselves to its support;
therefore, may I be the first to welcome you to its hospitality.

“Let me then, Bishop Harkins, in closing, hand over to you these
evidences that the building so happily completed is entirely
unencumbered; and let me assure you that while in doing so I now resign
the responsibility which has been my preoccupation and pleasure for
several months, still, while either Mrs. Carter or myself live, our
hearts are in this building, both for the name it bears and for the work
which we have confidence it will never fail to do in our community.”


                          RESPONSE OF BISHOP.

In response Bishop Harkins said in part: “Mr. and Mrs. Carter, I receive
very willingly and gratefully these evidences of your generosity. I
express to you my thanks and those of the entire community. There may
have been other cases in the United States like this, but this is the
first case that has come to my knowledge where a memorial of this kind
has been reared to an apparently lost, but not really lost, son.

“This is a very special, a very peculiar case. It shows not only a very
strong affection, but a very lively faith. It is that faith that is
necessary, a faith in the future, a realization that death does not end
all.

“Your son was a Cathedral boy, and when I say that I speak with a
considerable degree of pride. He was one of us and we knew him and loved
him. You determined that he should live on in a certain way and live
just about where he lived when he was here. So you have made your boy to
live; you have given him a kind of earthly immortality, if I may use
that term.

“He will live in the persons of the poor children who will be cared for
here. They will have the uplifting influence of the good sisters, the
Queen’s Daughters, the clergy, and all who can help them in any way. Yet
it will be he who will be living here.

“I thank you in my own name and in the name of the diocese of
Providence. I am sure that all those here present agree that no better
example can be given a community than that given here today. There is
gratitude in the hearts of all the citizens of Providence for this gift.

“In the name of the sisters who will have charge of this institution, I
wish to thank you. I welcomed them to our city here in Providence, for I
knew that I could not do greater service than to bring here the wise and
careful administration of charitable work they have always shown. They
will be mothers to the children. They will try to give, and will
well-nigh succeed in giving, all the maternal love that is given
children in the most favored homes. They will train them not only in
their duties to the church, but in every duty they must perform in civil
life.”

In conclusion Bishop Harkins paid a tribute to the Queen’s Daughters,
the organization which has assumed the maintenance of the institution.


                          DONORS ARE HONORED.

After the Bishop’s address, Miss Mary A. McArdle, President of the
Queen’s Daughters, made a brief address, in which she stated that Mr.
and Mrs. Carter had been elected honorary members of the Daughters of
the Queen of Heaven, concluding by presenting to Mrs. Carter a bouquet
of roses, in number the same as the years of life of the son in whose
memory the structure was given.

Mr. Carter responded briefly and the visitors then inspected the
building, many registering in the book provided for that purpose.

Among those present were: Mgr. Thomas F. Doran, Vicar General of the
diocese; Rev. Owen F. Clarke, Rev. Edward E. Seagrave, Rev. D. F.
Lowney, Rev. James C. Walsh, Rev. M. J. McCabe, Mayor P. J. McCarthy,
Mayor-elect Henry Fletcher, Attorney-General William B. Greenough,
Assistant Attorney-General Harry P. Cross, Cyrus P. Brown, Col. Cyrus M.
Van Slyck, Judge Frank E. Fitzsimmons, Judge Thomas Z. Lee, John E.
Canning and Thomas F. Monahan.


                           MODEL INSTITUTION.

This nursery, said to be one of the finest institutions of its kind in
the country, has been erected for the accommodation of poor children,
regardless of race, creed or color. The Queen’s Daughters, a body of
Catholic women with a membership of 700, which was organized in January
of the present year for the performance of charitable works, has assumed
its maintenance. The organization is affiliated with the Queen’s
Daughters of St. Louis, formed in 1889 by thirty-two women of that city
for charitable purposes.

The Sisters of the Holy Ghost, also known as the White Sisters, to whom
the institution was donated, first came to work among the sick poor in
this city in September, 1907. In their errands of mercy they found that
a day nursery was very much needed in the section in which their home is
located. The two day nurseries already established have been unable to
take care of all the children, both having long waiting lists, and the
building blessed yesterday will relieve the situation to a considerable
degree.

The building is admirably arranged, the purpose for which it will be
used having been taken into careful consideration by the architects,
Stone, Carpenter & Sheldon, and the ideas of the architects being
faithfully carried out by the builder, M. J. Houlihan.

[Illustration:

  VICTOR HERBERT.

  Of New York.

  The Eminent Composer and High Authority on Music.

  A New Member of the Society.
]

Mr. Carter’s intelligent liberality has rendered possible in Providence
a charity of peculiar value. The handsome building is a better monument
to his son’s memory than the most costly sarcophagus would be. It bids
fair for many years to come to minister to the needs of great numbers of
children of tender age whose parents cannot care for them during the
working hours of the day; and the community would have double reason to
congratulate itself if the example set by these donors were to inspire
other citizens of Providence to similar generous gifts. There are
twenty-three thousand women in this city who are employed in gainful
occupations, and many of them are married, with small children to
provide for. It is difficult to think of a more useful institution than
one that helps to lighten the domestic anxieties of these workers during
their enforced absence from home.

Mr. Carter is a member of the American Irish Historical Society and of
its Executive Council and served on the Reception Committee at the
events in Washington January 16, 1909.




                  WAR RECORD OF COLONEL JAMES QUINLAN.

 ONE OF THE EARLIEST MEMBERS OF THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

       BY FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, M. D., L. L. D., PRESIDENT-GENERAL.


In Volume VI of the Journal appeared a short sketch of Colonel Quinlan’s
life, in which his military record was incomplete and the date of birth
and receipt of certain commissions were incorrectly stated. The data
having been carefully collected and verified, a revised sketch is hereby
submitted:

James Quinlan was born in Tipperary, Ireland, September 13, 1833, and
came to New York in 1850 and there studied engineering. In 1853 he
joined the National Guard and became a member of the Sixty-Ninth
Regiment, being commissioned a Lieutenant in 1855, under Charles S. Roe,
and commissioned Captain in 1856.

On April 23, 1861, a few days after the fall of Fort Sumter, he left New
York with the Sixty-Ninth as Captain of Engineers. He was present at the
battle of Blackburn’s Ford, July 18th, and Bull Run July 21st, where he
was severely wounded. After this battle Acting Brigadier-General T. F.
Meagher recruited the celebrated Irish Brigade, and he was commissioned
Major of the Eighty-Eighth New York Infantry, one of the regiments of
that organization, in 1861, and ordered by General Meagher to proceed to
Fort Schuyler and take command there until further orders. (As far as we
know, he was the first volunteer officer to take command of a Fort in
the Civil War.) He was present in all the battles of that famous Brigade
in the Peninsular Campaign and commanded the regiment all through the
Seven Days’ fighting. He won his Medal of Honor by leading a charge on a
Confederate battery at Savage Station, Va., June 29, 1862. The battery
in question was one of six guns, and had been very annoying to the Union
troops. Several other regiments had made efforts to silence it, but
without avail. General W. W. Burns, U. S. A., who was in command on that
memorable day, wrote at the time Major Quinlan received his Medal of
Honor as follows: “The Medal of Honor won by your gallant charge which
silenced the enemy’s battery at Savage Station and closed that desperate
attack upon the rear of the Army of the Potomac, June 29, 1862, is a
just reward and memento for conspicuous bravery due from a grateful
Republic to the brave leader of the gallant Eighty-Eighth New York. No
one can feel more satisfaction for this signal proof of distinction and
glory than your old Commander of that day. The Eighty-Eighth saved the
lives of many gallant soldiers by that forlorn-hope charge, and cleared
our way to victory that day. It commemorated the charge of the Irish
Brigade at Fontenoy.” In the Circular “Medals of Honor” issued by the
War Department October 31, 1897, the ground of award of Major Quinlan’s
medal is as follows: “Led his regiment on the enemy’s battery, silenced
the guns, held the position against overwhelming numbers, and covered
the retreat of the Second Army Corps.” He was honorably mentioned by
General McClellan for bravery at Malvern Hill and Antietam. He was
commissioned Lieutenant-Colonel on September 22, 1862, and received his
honorable discharge for disability on medical certificate February 4,
1863.

After a few weeks’ illness of heart trouble he died at his home, 104
East 96th Street, August 29, 1906.

And so has passed into history the name of a citizen of foreign birth,
who owed allegiance to the whole of his adopted country, and when her
troubles came he was found early at the front, dedicating his all to her
perpetuity.

A firm, honest friend, a devoted Christian, a loyal brave soldier went
to his rest when James Quinlan joined the soldiers of our great Republic
who had gone before.




JOSEPH O’CONNOR, EDITOR, AUTHOR AND POET, WHO DECEASED AT ROCHESTER, N.
                         Y., OCTOBER 9TH, 1908.


             SKETCH OF HIS LIFE. ONE OF HIS FAVORITE POEMS.

A great editor laid down forever a brilliant, beautiful and useful pen
when Joseph O’Connor, the Rochesterian, passed into Eternity from his
home in Rochester on the night of October 9, 1908.

In a few hours the news had flashed to all points of the compass,
bringing a pause and a hush of sadness to thousands of homes, from Maine
to California, wherein his unique personality was known and loved
through his nearly forty years of journalistic leadership.

Born in New York State of Irish parents in 1841, he was educated in the
best schools of his native State for the practice of the law, but he
early chose journalism instead of law for his life work and he made a
magnificent success of it.

He brought to the work a mind well-stocked with more of the true history
of the world than falls to the lot of most students of history. He
brought to his work a mind imbued with the true Christian philosophy of
the Catholic catechism. He had formed from youth up a habit of broad,
kindly outlook on things in general. He assumed and maintained a manly
attitude in politics, uncompromising in principle, but tolerant of other
men’s opinions. He had a born poet’s appreciation of true poetry, and a
literary judgment that came to be universally respected. He had a gift
of expression as a model of unique, finished, sincere writing. And his
humility was the best of it all.

He won his readers to his way of seeing things as much by the very
apparent unconsciousness of his own superiority as by his logical
presentation of his subject.

Through all his long life of varied editorship and many degrees of
political and literary success, there is no pessimism charged to his
account, no animosity, no bitterness; not even discourtesy.

Many a time in the heat of a political campaign he had to strike at a
champion of the other side, but his blow was always leonine. It was a
settler of the subject in dispute, but it left no ugly memories—no
galling personalities ever marred his political battles.

He scored his successes by the friendly hand shakes of his worsted
antagonists.

He prized his independence in politics, and never jeopardized it by
accepting favors or honors from friend or foe.

With one or two exceptions, every change that he made in his position
was due to his insistent desire to maintain his personal independence as
a writer. He left the _Indianapolis Sentinel_ because he did not wish to
conform to its political policy. His editorial work on the _New York
World_ became irksome on this same account. He broke with the managers
of the _Buffalo Courier_ in 1886 because he disliked Grover Cleveland
and because he did not propose to stultify his editorial utterances in a
newspaper whose proprietor was specially friendly at the time to the
Buffalo President. He is said to have refused a flattering offer from
Charles A. Dana to become editorial writer on the _New York Sun_ because
he did not believe he could conform to Mr. Dana’s ideas, however much he
might admire the genius of that brilliant editor.

He set his editorial chair on a calm high level and from it addressed
daily a clientele that loyally followed him in all his journeyings
through fields of philosophy, history, poetry, romance and even the
common things of everyday life. To read him once was to seek him again
and remain his disciple.

He might have made his fame rest on his poetry, but he subordinated that
gift to his passion for regular, constant work in his editorial chair,
indulging in flights of fancy only as a pastime.

Mr. O’Connor was a master of the English language; indeed, it is
doubtful if any man on the American press ever wrote it better. Some
twenty years ago a correspondent of the _New York Sun_ asked Mr. Dana
for information regarding literary style. In the course of his reply he
said:

“Among the newspaper writers of our own country and of the present day,
perhaps the best style is that of Mr. Joseph O’Connor, the editor of
_The Post Express_ of Rochester. It is terse, lucid, calm,
argumentative, and without a trace of effort or affectation.”

After quoting this tribute, said Father Cronin of the _Buffalo Union and
Times_: “It is no small source of pride and gratification to us to know
that one of the great princes of American journalism is an Irish
American. Mr. O’Connor’s pen is like the Damascene blade, polished and
beautiful, yet withal so smooth and keen that the victim of its blow is
severed in twain almost without realizing the catastrophe. Long may
Joseph O’Connor wield it, as he has always wielded it, a menace to evil
and a swift and sure protection to the right.”

All over the State of New York the daily and weekly papers, the day
after his death, contained most flattering and affectionate tributes to
his memory, and these were echoed and reinforced since by the press of
the whole country, for “The Rochesterian” gave the key to the right
solution of many a question to hundreds of editors who sought in the
exchanges for “J. O’C’s” latest.

Said the _Rochester Times_: “For intelligence and insight he had few
peers among the great journalists of his time; but in addition he had
what some more renowned than he have lacked—absolute bravery of
conviction. His pen was unconditionally consecrated to truth as he saw
truth; and nothing could weaken his allegiance. It is familiar history
that he could have held some of the highest posts in American journalism
had he been willing to bend his honor or relax his sincerity.”

“Intellectually,” says the _Syracuse Herald_, “he was one of the
frankest and bravest of men, never hesitating to champion a cause that
appealed to his reason or humanity because it happened to be temporarily
unpopular.”

“Journalism,” says the _Troy Press_, “loses a philosophical writer, a
brilliant scholar and a veritable ‘knowledge-box’ in the death of Joseph
O’Connor of _The Post Express_. He was one of the few editors whose
talent and resources were so abounding that adequately to replace him is
practically out of the question.”

“He set before the men of his profession,” says the _Rochester Herald_,
“an example of frankness, courage, and independence which is emulated
wherever it is possible to follow it, and is admired and envied where
conditions do not permit of its acceptance. The utterances of
newspapers, elsewhere in the country as well as here, are more sincere,
more fearless, and freer from cant and sham because of the ideals
revered and upheld by Joseph O’Connor.”

“Mr. O’Connor,” says the _Rochester Times_, “was a man of extensive
acquaintance, of legions of friends but with few ‘cronies.’ Among these
favored few might be numbered Rev. Louis A. Lambert of Scottsville,
editor-in-chief of the _New York Freeman’s Journal_; Rev. John L. Codyre
of Fairport, Judge John D. Lynn, and a few others. His friendships were
for literary characters and their conversation was of the ultra
intellectual thought. Abstruse theological and philosophical problems
were discussed with as much freedom as ordinary persons talk of the
weather. Yet Mr. O’Connor in his kindly, lovable, winsome way could talk
entertainingly on the commonest topic with any acquaintance and his was
the tactful manner which never made one feel his smallness before him.”

Such is the tribute paid him by the _Rochester, N. Y., Herald_ of
October 10th, 1908, in its editorial column.

The Society, in response to its request for further information for its
archives, received the following communication from Mr. O’Connor’s
lifelong friend, Edmond Redmond, Esq., which we print in full:


                                  230 Spencer St., Rochester, N. Y.,
                                                      November 13, 1908.

  _Mr. Thomas Z. Lee, Secretary-General American Irish Historical
     Society,
      Providence, R. I._

  DEAR SIR: I duly received your letter of the 5th instant requesting
  such material as I may have in relation to a biographical sketch of
  the late Joseph O’Connor.

  I assume that you have seen the notices printed in Rochester and other
  newspapers immediately following his decease. I regret that I can add
  but little to those eulogies, which were, I have reason to believe,
  written by intimate associates and came from the heart.

  I thought that less was said by his recent friends about his interest
  in Ireland and her cause than deserves to be known. And on that point
  I can testify from acquaintance with him that few things were nearer
  or dearer to him than the land of his ancestors. His pen and voice
  were ever ready to work in the cause of Ireland, and I have no doubt
  that his personal fortunes, in the ordinary commercial sense, suffered
  from the persistence with which, all through life, he continued to
  bring to the attention of an indifferent public the wrongs inflicted
  on the people of the island. It was, however, a labor of love with
  him, and his zeal in the cause continued to the end. He had no
  confidence in secret societies effecting any great good in Irish
  politics; but he gave hearty support to the Land League in Parnell’s
  day. He was a delegate to the famous Land League convention of 1886 in
  Chicago, and was urged by friends to let them propose him for
  President of the American branch of the Society. He has been heard to
  say that he was indebted to the Land League for the experience which
  enabled him in later years to feel at home on his feet while engaged
  in public speaking on other subjects.

  His regard for Ireland could not have been stronger had he been a
  native of the land, and it was evidently inherited. Years ago he heard
  a friend humming “As Slow Our Ship Her Foamy Track,” and said that
  when his father was leaving Ireland a group gathered about him on the
  deck of the ship as he sung that song, and before it was finished they
  were all in tears.

  Although usually slow to anger, he was liable to be moved on hearing
  the creditable deeds of plain Irishmen ascribed, as they are so often,
  to the “Scotch-Irish,”—a designation which he detested, employed as it
  usually is to detract from Ireland the reflected honor to which she is
  entitled from the worthy fame of her children.

  If the nature and scope of the work which you have in hand permits of
  eulogy, it would be impossible to speak too highly of O’Connor’s
  character. In both public and private life he was the soul of honor.
  His talents were of the first order and always exerted toward good
  ends. His integrity was unbounding. Like Gay his “manners were gentle,
  his affections mild.” In a word he was a really great and uncommonly
  good citizen, a true and noble man. One of his favorite poets was
  Goldsmith and I cannot better end this too brief sketch than with what
  the author of “The Deserted Village” said of Reynolds:—

                       To tell you my mind.
               He has not left a greater or better behind.

                                             Very truly yours,
                                                         EDMOND REDMOND.


Mr. O’Connor was the author of many poems, and in 1895 the Putnams
brought out a little volume of his modestly entitled “Poems.” Many of
the shorter poems in the book are characterized by delicate fancy and
graceful rhyming; such poems as “Her Hands,” “Water Lilies,” and the
“Wine Song.” He favored these smaller, slighter children of his fancy.
He thought the best poem he ever wrote was “The Cavalier Sword,” and
next in order he placed “The Fount of Castaly.” In our opinion “Her
Hands” is the sweetest and most graceful of them all, and we print it
herewith:


                               HER HANDS.

               Sometimes I sit and try to trace
                 In memory’s records dim and faint,
               The features of my mother’s face,
               With the calm look of gentle grace
                 That marked our house’s quiet saint.

               The innocence of her blue eyes,
                 The winning smile about her lips,
               Child-simple and yet woman-wise,
               Her shining hair, her modest guise,
                 All come in turn; each fades and slips.

               I try to fix them, but in vain;
                 They waver, and yet will not fuse,
               Howe’er imagination strain,
               To form the face that it would feign—
                 Till on a sudden, as I muse

               There comes a thought of her dear hands,
                 All wrinkled, tanned and labor-worn—
               And there the simple woman stands,
               To meet her duty’s hard demands,
                 Among the children she has borne.

               No work nor written word remains,
                 Nor picture worthy to approve;
               But read in knotted joints and veins,
               And tendons strong, and honest stains,
                 The tale of service and of love.

               O hands of ministry, that wrought
                 In constant care, through weal and woe,
               Nor rest by crib or coffin caught,
               This pang is mine—I never thought
                 To kiss your fingers long ago.




           CHIEF EGAN’S WAR RECORD WRITTEN FOR STATE ARCHIVES

                        FROM PROVIDENCE JOURNAL.


David Irwin of San Francisco, an Irishman, formerly First Lieutenant of
Company F, Third Rhode Island Heavy Artillery, who served under Gen.
Charles R. Brayton, a guest and speaker at the dedication of the Society
of the Sullivan Memorial December 16, 1908, has recently written a
sketch of his service in the Army, and while compiling the story ran
across several notes of incidents in Army life which directly concern
Chief of Police Patrick Egan, of Providence, R. I.

Mr. Irwin has forwarded the information to General Brayton, in order
that it may be preserved in the archives of the State. In his letter Mr.
Irwin says: “Being a native of the Emerald Isle, I claim the right to
make a little Irish bull by saying that when I enlisted at Providence
the only man I knew in my regiment was a boy fifteen years old. The day
that I made up my mind to be one of the ’200,000 more’ called for by
President Lincoln, I went into the workshop where this boy was learning
the shoe trade and said to him, ‘Patsy, I am going to enlist. Don’t you
want to go?’

“He looked up with a smile on his face and replied: ‘Yes, if you will.’

“‘All right,’ I said, ‘come along. I’m going.’

“I can imagine I see him now getting up from his bench, taking off his
apron, throwing it down and putting on his coat.

“Away we went to the recruiting office and signed the roll, he giving
his age as seventeen, which no one doubted. He was tall for his years.

“I had hoped we would be placed in the same company, that I might be
near him and keep an eye on him, for I felt somewhat responsible for
taking him away from his widowed mother, but fate or fortunes of war
willed it otherwise. I was assigned to Company G and he to Company C,
which was afterward mounted as a light battery. However, he soon proved
to be well able to take care of himself, except, perhaps, on one
occasion.

“That was soon after the Port Royal, S. C., expedition,” Mr. Irwin
explains, “of which our regiment was a part, sailed from Hampton Roads
late in October, 1861, the land forces, consisting of about 12,500 men,
being under Gen. Thomas W. Sherman, and a fleet of seventeen warships
and thirty transports and supply vessels, commanded by Commodore Samuel
F. DuPont.

“About a week before sailing our regiment embarked on an old steamship,
which had been used for carrying cotton from New Orleans to New York.
Patsy’s company happened to be assigned to the poorest quarters on the
ship—the lower hold. The accommodations for 1,000 men were none too
good, consequently, we had more or less sickness on board.

“Hearing one day that Patsy was ill, I went in search of him, and found
him in a dark, poorly ventilated hole. He was a very sick boy. I took
him up to my company’s quarters and put him into a berth near the
hatchway, where he got better air, and, with a little care—the best we
could give him under the circumstances, as we were then off Cape
Hatteras and having very stormy weather—he soon recovered and in a few
days he was himself again.

“It may not be out of place to relate here a little incident which took
place one night during the height of the storm. About midnight the rain
was coming down in sheets, the sea running high and the wind blowing a
gale, when, in an instant, over went the old ship on her beam’s end.
This caused quite a commotion among the boys—we were all called ‘boys’
then—some of whom rushed to the hatchway to get on deck, but were
prevailed upon to remain below. One of the foremost of them, ‘Jim’
Burns, a countryman of mine, dropped on his knees on the stairs and
commenced praying like a good fellow. The others quieted down and paid
all due respect to Jim and his prayers. In a few minutes the ship
righted again, and in a short time the worst of the storm was over.

“Next day things looked a little brighter and some of the boys thought
they might have a little fun at Jim’s expense. Being First Sergeant of
the company, they suggested that I appoint Jim Chaplain of the company,
seeing he had made such a good prayer the night before. When I told him
of their wishes, he looked at me with a twinkle in his eye and replied:

“‘No you don’t appoint me Chaplain. Let them go to the ‘divil,’ and do
their own prayin’.’

“After losing four of our supply vessels during the storm, we arrived at
our destination on the morning of November 7, 1861, and witnessed the
same day the bombardment and capture by the Navy of Fort Walker on
Hilton Head, and Fort Beauregard on Bay Point, S. C. We landed on the
‘sacred soil’ late in the afternoon, our regiment taking possession of
the abandoned rebel fortifications.

“I saw but little of Patsy after this. Active operations were soon
commenced, our regiment was broken up and the companies scattered over
the islands and swamps about Charleston and Savannah, where they took a
prominent part in the following: Siege and surrender of Fort Pulaski,
Ga., from January 1 to April 15, 1862; battle of Secessionville, James
Island, near Charleston, June 16, 1862; battle of Pocotaligo, S. C., on
the Charleston and Savannah Railroad, October 21, 1862; capture of
Morris Island and Fort Wagner, and in the bombardment and memorable
siege of Fort Sumter, 1863, and many other smaller engagements.

“In the spring of 1863 I met his captain (Brayton), who had been a
Lieutenant in my company and afterward Colonel of the regiment, and
asked him how ‘Patrick Egan’—that was the boy’s name—‘was getting
along.’

“He answered, ‘Egan is getting along all right. He is one of my best
boys. I have just made him a corporal.’

“The first time I met Patsy after this was on the disastrous battlefield
of Olustee, Florida, February 20, 1864. He was then a Sergeant and had
charge of a section of his battery, which was temporarily attached to a
four-gun Battery M of the First United States Artillery. When I was
ordered to retire from the field with the remnant of the battery in
which I was then serving, E, Third United States Artillery, by the late
Senator Hawley, who was then Colonel of the Seventh Connecticut, and
Acting Brigadier-General, we passed near to where young Egan was, with
his two guns in position.

“I rode up to him and exclaimed, ‘Patsy, what are you doing here?’

“His reply was, ‘We are doing the best we can.’

“Not seeing any officers present, I then said to him, ‘You had better
get out of here as soon as possible, or you and your men and guns will
all be captured.’

“He limbered up, withdrew a short distance and fired a few more shots of
cannister which, I have no doubt, checked, at a critical moment, the
advance of the enemy.

“It was now dark, and I believe these were the last guns fired at the
Battle of Olustee, where the Union troops under Gen. Truman Seymour lost
1,900 men in killed, wounded and missing, and five pieces of artillery,
out of a force of about 4,500 men engaged.

“The Confederates were supposed to have about 6,000 troops, commanded by
General Finnegan, and their loss was reported to be little over 900.

“This engagement seemed to be more like an ambuscade than anything else.
It was so unexpected—like a thunderclap out of a clear sky. We were
marching leisurely through a swampy, thickly-wooded country from early
morning until 3 p. m., when we came to a clearing and found the enemy,
who had been retreating for several days, posted in a very strong,
well-chosen position, partly intrenched and sheltered by thick woods,
while we were exposed to their deadly fire in the open field, which
accounts for the great difference in the losses.

“We retired in good order during the night and next day to Jacksonville,
forty miles distant, with but little trouble from the ‘Johnnies.’ Here
young Egan joined his own battery, turned over his section to the
commanding officer and reported a loss of one man killed, six wounded
and twelve horses killed or disabled. He was slightly wounded himself
and had a horse shot under him. The battery to which his section was
attached lost about thirty-five men in killed, wounded and missing and
three out of their four guns.

“I will now quote an incident of camp life taken from his narrative of
the Florida campaign:

“‘A few days after our arrival in Jacksonville the battery, together
with Barton’s Brigade, was ordered to Palatka. Palatka is a small town
seventy miles from Jacksonville, on the St. John’s River, and is, at the
present time, a winter resort for invalids. It was here that the famous
‘cow incident’ took place, and ‘Who killed the cow?’ afterward became a
by-word in the brigade, especially when Colonel Barton was within
hearing distance.

“‘It came about in this way: When we occupied Palatka, the only white
person in the village was an old lady, who had a fine residence, and
Colonel Barton, the commander of the brigade, made his headquarters
there. This woman had a very nice cow, the only one in the village, and
Barton was dependent upon her for milk.

“‘During the day the cow would feed in the dooryards and on the lawns,
and sometimes she would come around to where Battery C was camped. One
day some of the boys thought what a nice steak and liver they could get
from the cow, and, at the same time, get square with Barton, he not
being a favorite with the boys. They thought they might kill two birds
with one stone by getting the steak and liver, and, at the same time,
cut off Barton’s milk supply. So the next day, when the cow came along,
one of the boys drove her into a back-yard near the camp, and, in a
short time, that cow was a thing of the past.

“‘Steaks and liver were cut out for those who had done the work and for
their friends, and the rest of the meat was sent to the cook house,
where all had nice beef stew. Everything was all right until
milking-time, when the cow failed to show up. Then the fun began. Men
were sent out from headquarters and also from the Provost Marshal’s
office to try to find the cow and to make inquiries.

“‘Of course, the men of Battery C knew nothing about her. But they were
eventually suspected, for the next morning the Provost Marshal came to
our quarters asking all sorts of questions. Some of the boys, including
your humble servant, knew nothing about it and were sorry for the
Colonel. The following morning Colonel Barton sent for the
non-commissioned officers and told us that he was satisfied that the
last seen of the cow was near Battery C’s camp. He also said that all he
wanted was the name of the man who killed the cow, and that some of the
non-commissioned officers must know something about it. He then asked
each one the name of the man who killed the cow, but each denied all
knowledge of it.

“‘Well, someone must have given the whole thing away, for the next day
Captain James had the “assembly” blown and the company fell in. He then
called the names of nine men, comprising one Sergeant, one Corporal, and
seven privates. The Sergeant and Corporal were reduced to the ranks,
and, with the other seven, were confined in the guard house, put on a
diet of bread and water, and made a “spread eagle” of until someone
should tell who killed the cow.

“‘Morning and evening they were asked who killed the cow, but they
denied they knew who did it. This was carried on for three days, when
someone put up a job with the pickets, and on the afternoon of the third
day they began firing, the long roll was sounded and the prisoners were
released to man the guns. No Johnnies appeared, it being a bluff to get
the men released. They could not be punished again for the same offence,
so thus ended the cow incident, but Colonel Barton never found out who
killed the cow.

“‘In justice to Colonel Barton, who has joined the “Grand Army above,” I
wish to say that I knew him very well and served under him for nearly a
year, and found him to be a nice gentleman, a strict disciplinarian, a
good and a brave officer. I will also state that I have good reason for
believing that Comrade Egan took no part in “cutting off the Colonel’s
milk supply” and that the old lady was compensated for the loss of the
cow.’

“In April, 1864, his battery was ordered to Fort Monroe, Va., where it
joined General Butler’s Army of the James and participated in all the
battles, sieges and operations around Petersburg and Richmond from May 4
to the close of the war, having fought for the Union in four of the
seceding States—South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Virginia. He was
honorably discharged when in sight of the steeples of Richmond, October,
1864. At the close of the war his old battery was the first volunteer
battery to enter that long-coveted and hard-fought-for city—Richmond. To
Capt. Martin S. James of this battery was assigned the honor of
dismantling the fortifications around this famous stronghold and capital
of the Confederacy.

“When next we met, August, 1904, at the National Encampment, G. A. R.,
in Boston, Mass., I could hardly believe he was the same boy I last
saw—more than forty years before—on the battlefield of Olustee. He was
then (1904) a fine specimen of manhood; stood six feet, one and one half
inches, and weighed 240 pounds.”

[Illustration:

  W. J. O’HAGAN, ESQ.,

  Of Charleston, S. C.

  Vice-President of the Society for South Carolina.
]




THE SOCIETY OF THE FRIENDLY SONS OF ST. PATRICK IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK.

                          BY JOHN J. LENEHAN.


The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York
was instituted on March 17, 1784. It had its origin among Irish officers
connected with the armies of the American Revolution. On November 25,
1783, the last British soldier departed from the shores of Manhattan,
the British flag which had been nailed to the flagpole of Fort George
was hauled down, the American flag was run up in its place, and the
Continental Army entered the city. It was led by George Washington, then
an adopted member of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick of Philadelphia.
At his side rode the Governor, General George Clinton, the son of an
Irishman; and the advance battalion was commanded by General Henry Knox,
also the son of an Irishman, and a member of the Friendly Sons of St.
Patrick of Philadelphia.

In the environment produced by these conditions, in the atmosphere of
liberty and Constitutional government that followed the advent of the
American army into its final possession of New York City, was born the
Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick. Daniel McCormick was its
founder and its president for many years. The objects of the Society
were to assist poor and distressed natives, and descendants of natives,
of Ireland, and promote friendly, social feelings among its members.

With these laudable purposes, on March 17, 1784, the first St. Patrick’s
Day following the evacuation of New York by the British, the Society
inaugurated its festive functions at “Cape’s Tavern.” In the _New York
Packet and Advertiser_ of Thursday, March 18, 1784, the following
appears:


  Yesterday, being the anniversary of St. Patrick, his patriotic sons
  met at Cape’s Tavern, where they gave an elegant entertainment to his
  Excellency the Governor, Lieut.-Governor, Chancellor and a number of
  other respectable gentlemen of this State. The day and evening were
  spent in festivity and mirth, and a number of suitable toasts were
  drunk upon this joyful occasion. The greatest unanimity and
  conviviality pervaded this numerous and jovial company, and perhaps
  this great Saint was never honoured with a concourse of more generous
  and truly patriotic sons than this assembly afforded.


Thus commenced (in the words of Curran), “those happy meetings when the
swelling heart conceived and communicated the pure and generous purpose,
the innocent enjoyment of social mirth expanded into the nobler warmth
of social virtue, and the horizon of the board became enlarged into the
horizon of man.” Almost uninterruptedly since quarterly and anniversary
meetings of the Society have been held. Many of the leading men of the
City and State are enrolled among its members, and the records of the
Society from the beginning contain names prominent in the early history
of the Republic. Social and friendly intercourse was promoted and
maintained among the natives of Ireland and their kinsmen and
descendants. Numbers of deserving, but less fortunate fellow-countrymen,
were relieved by the bounty of the Society, implements and materials for
domestic manufacture were furnished to the industrious poor. The needy
were assisted with money, medicine, clothing and fuel, the destitute
were provided with homes and, when necessary, were furnished with
sufficient funds to enable them to return to their native land.

The design of the badge worn by members of the Society, and which
appears on the cover of this book, is a _facsimile_ of the “reverse” of
the medal worn by the members of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in
Philadelphia in 1771. The following in reference to that medal is from
_Haverty’s American Almanac_:


  Each member was required to furnish himself with a gold medal of the
  value of three guineas, agreeably to the following description: On the
  right, HIBERNIA; on the left, AMERICA; in the center, LIBERTY joining
  the hands of HIBERNIA and AMERICA, represented by the usual figures of
  a female supported by a harp, for HIBERNIA; an Indian with his quiver
  on his back and his bow slung, for AMERICA; underneath, UNITE. On the
  reverse, ST. PATRICK tramping on a snake, a cross in his hand, dressed
  in pontificalibus, the motto, “HIER.”

  These devices, designed some years before the Revolution, were
  certainly ominous, if not prophetic. The Goddess of LIBERTY joining
  the hands of HIBERNIA and AMERICA, with the superscription “UNITE,”
  was sufficiently significant, considering that the effect of that
  union powerfully promoted the subsequent dismemberment of the British
  Empire and the liberty and independence of America. The motto, HIER,
  or, without the aspirate, IER, in the Celtic language signifies
  “West,” and from it came the name of the country, Ere, Erin, or
  Ireland, and Ierna, aspirated Hibernia. But the word HIER had in it a
  duplicate and equivocal signification, peculiarly appropriate as the
  motto of a society whose object was to “_Unite_” in fellowship the
  sons of the _little_ isle of the “_West_” with those of the _great_
  continent of the “West.” This medal the members were obliged to wear
  at the meeting of the Society under the penalty of 7s. 6d. for neglect
  to do so on St. Patrick’s day, and 5s. on the days of the quarterly
  meetings.[2]


Footnote 2:

  The Friendly Sons of St. Patrick of Philadelphia was founded in 1771.
  George Washington, adopted a member December 17, 1781, dined with the
  Society on St. Patrick’s Day, 1782, and characterized it as “_a
  society distinguished for the firm adherence of its members to the
  glorious cause in which we are embarked_.” Other members were Generals
  Moylan, Shee, Wayne, Knox, Butler, Irvine, Hand; Commodore Barry, John
  Mease, who crossed the Delaware with General Washington on the
  memorable night of December 25, 1776, and surprised the Hessians; and
  his brother, Matthew, who commanded the quarter deck guns under Paul
  Jones in the _Bonhomme Richard’s_ fight with the _Serapis_.

  On June 17, 1780, twenty-seven of its members subscribed 103,500
  pounds sterling to furnish provisions for the army, Robert Morris and
  Blair McClenachan each subscribing 10,000 pounds. William Constable,
  another member, an aid of Lafayette and partner of Robert Morris, was
  one of the founders of the New York Society.—_Hood’s Friendly Sons of
  St. Patrick_, 43–49 (Phila., 1844); _Crimmins’ Early Celebrations of
  St. Patrick’s Day_, 215 (N. Y., 1902).

The original records of the Society from 1784 to 1835, except the
Treasurer’s Book from 1804, were lost by fire in August, 1835, being at
that time in possession of the Secretary, whose place of business was
destroyed.

The Society has been true to the principles on which it was founded. It
has helped the needy and distressed, and has been the means of cementing
lifelong friendships among its members and among those who participated
in its festivities. From the Society grew the Irish Emigrant Society and
the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank. Uniting to the charitable and
humane the friendly and social feelings, it seeks to keep ever vigorous
the love of Ireland and of the Irish character. It celebrates the
festival of St. Patrick as a national and immemorial custom, to
commemorate the glory of Ireland, to drop a tear upon her sorrows and to
express a hope for her regeneration. It has entertained illustrious and
distinguished guests at its banquets. Among those of recent years may be
mentioned President Theodore Roosevelt in 1905, and president-elect
William H. Taft in 1908. A notable dinner was given on May 29, 1902, to
the French Governmental Mission attending the Rochambeau Monument
ceremonies, in acknowledgement of which the Republic of France presented
to the Society a magnificent Sèvres vase, now in the Metropolitan Museum
of Art.

Among the Society’s members have been many of the great merchants,
business and professional men of the city. To pass over the living, on
its rolls appear the names of Alexander Macomb, Hugh Gaine, William
Constable, Dominick Lynch, DeWitt Clinton, John Caldwell, Thomas Addis
Emmet, Robert J. Dillon, Joseph Stuart, Richard Bell, William Kelly,
Joseph P. Kernochan, John Haggerty, Ogden Haggerty, William Sampson,
David J. Graham, Charles O’Conor, James T. Brady, John R. Brady, Dr.
Robert Hogan, Dr. William James MacNeven, Very Rev. Dr. John Power,
Thomas W. Clerke, Daniel Devlin, Henry L. Hoguet, Eugene Kelly, Joseph
J. O’Donohue, Richard O’Gorman, John Savage, Jeremiah Devlin, William
Whiteside, Thomas Barbour, Hugh J. Hastings, Thomas Francis Meagher,
James R. Cuming, Charles P. Daly, Frederick Smyth, William R. Grace,
William L. Brown, Peter McDonnell, C. C. Shayne, Frank T. Fitzgerald,
George C. Barrett, Samuel Sloan, James S. Coleman, John Crane, Vincent
P. Travers, John Stewart, Daniel O’Day and Hugh Kelly. Grover Cleveland
was an honorary member.

Of these, Dr. William James MacNeven and Thomas Addis Emmet, whose names
are indelibly written on the pages not only of Irish history, but on the
history of New York city and State, became members of the Friendly Sons
of St. Patrick in 1815. Facing Broadway, in the graveyard of historic
St. Paul’s, are reared the columns upon which are noted their services
to their native country and to their adopted land, flanking on either
side the tablet which perpetuates the memory of that other great
Irishman, who fell at the siege of Quebec, General Richard Montgomery.

Free from all religious and political characteristics, it is the
representative Irish society in the city of New York.

In 1827 it was incorporated by the following act of the Legislature of
the State of New York:


                                 CHARTER

                            OF THE SOCIETY OF

               THE FRIENDLY SONS OF ST. PATRICK IN THE CITY
                               OF NEW YORK.

  “AN ACT to Incorporate the Society of the Friendly Sons of Saint
  Patrick, in the City of New York. Passed February 13, 1827.

  “_Whereas_, the members of a Society instituted for the relief of
  indigent natives of Ireland, and their descendants, have petitioned
  the Legislature for an act of incorporation, the better to enable them
  to obtain the objects of their association; therefore

  “1. _Be it enacted_ by the People of the State of New York,
  represented in Senate and Assembly, That John Chambers, James McBride,
  James Magee, Alexander Charters, John Montgomery, John Cauldwell and
  Daniel McCormick, and such other persons as now are or hereafter shall
  become members of the Society of the Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick in
  the City of New York, are hereby constituted and declared a body
  politic and corporate, in fact and in name, by the name of “The
  Society of the Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick in the City of New
  York,” and by that name they and their successors, during the
  existence of the said corporation, shall and may have perpetual
  succession; and shall in law be capable of suing and being sued,
  pleading and being impleaded, answering and being answered unto,
  defending and being defended, in all courts and places whatsoever; and
  that they and their successors may have and use a common seal, and may
  change and alter the same from time to time at their pleasure; and
  also that, by their corporate name, and in their corporate capacity,
  they and their successors may purchase, take, hold, use and enjoy,
  sell, lease and convey any estate, real or personal, for the use and
  benefit of said corporation: _Provided_, That the annual income of
  such real and personal estate shall not at any time exceed the sum of
  five thousand dollars.

  “2. _And be it further enacted_, That the said corporation shall have
  power to make such constitution, by-laws and regulations, as they
  shall judge proper, for the appointment of officers, for the admission
  of new members, for the government of the officers and members
  thereof, for collecting annual contributions from the members towards
  the funds thereof, for regulating the times and places of meeting of
  the said Society, for suspending or expelling such members as shall
  neglect or refuse to comply with the by-laws or regulations, and for
  the managing and directing the property, affairs and concerns of said
  Society: _Provided_, That such constitution, by-laws and regulations
  be not inconsistent with the Laws or Constitution of this State, or of
  the United States: _Provided further_, that the said corporation shall
  not engage in any banking business, nor dispose of any of its funds
  for any other purpose than the relief of such members of the said
  Society, natives of Ireland, and children and grandchildren of natives
  of Ireland, or of a member of said Society, as may become indigent and
  poor.

  “3. _And be it further enacted_, That the present officers of said
  Society shall hold their respective offices until others shall be
  chosen in their places.

  “4. _And be it further enacted_, That this Act be, and hereby is
  declared to be, a public act, and that the same shall be construed in
  all courts and places, benignly and favourably for every beneficial
  purpose therein intended, and that no misnomer of the said corporation
  in any deed, gift, grant, devise or other instrument of contract or
  conveyance, shall vitiate or defeat the same: _Provided_, The
  Corporation shall be sufficiently described to ascertain the intention
  of the parties.

  “5. _And be it further enacted_, That the Legislature may at any time
  hereafter amend, alter, modify or repeal this act.”

  [Laws of New York, 1827; chapter 42.]


Owing to the loss of the Society’s books in 1835, the list of its early
members is necessarily incomplete, but a partial list of the earliest
members is:

                                           Member In
                    McCormick, Daniel           1784
                    Gaine, Hugh                 1784
                    Waddell, Robert R.          1784
                    Constable, William          1784
                    Macomb, Alexander           1784
                    Roach, Thomas               1784
                    Pollock, George             1784
                    Hill, William               1784
                    Shaw, John                  1784
                    Pollock, Carlisle           1784
                    Bibby, Thomas               1784
                    Flemming, Sampson           1784
                    Templeton, Oliver           1784
                    Bradford, M.                1787
                    Gibson, Dr.                 1787
                    Smith, H.                   1787
                    Colles, Christopher         1788
                    Thomson, Charles            1788
                    Maunsell, Gen. John         1789
                    Clinton, DeWitt             1790
                    Edgar, William              1790
                    McVickar, John              1790
                    Price, Michael              1790
                    Saidler, Henry              1790
                    Charleton, John             1790
                    Constable, James            1790
                    Stewart, Alexander          1793
                    Wade, William               1793
                    Barnewell, George           1793
                    Glover, John                1793
                    Lynch, Dominick             1793
                    Kelly, John                 1795
                    Wallace, William            1804
                    Caldwell, John              1804
                    Heeney, Cornelius           1804
                    Parks, John                 1804
                    Hogan, M.                   1805
                    Searight, J.                1805
                    Boyle, M.                   1805
                    Carbis, J.                  1805
                    Reid, D.                    1805
                    Blake, Valentine            1805
                    Rutledge, William           1805
                    Craig, W.                   1805
                    Sullivan, J.                1805
                    Bailie, William             1805
                    Bryar, William              1805
                    Suffern, Thomas             1805
                    Shaw, W.                    1805
                    McCarty, Charles            1805
                    Dickey, R.                  1805
                    Cranston, Alex.             1805
                    Roth, M.                    1805
                    Craig, S.                   1805
                    McComb, J. W.               1805
                    McConnell, James            1805
                    Murray, J.                  1805
                    Phelan, John                1805
                    Morris, Andrew              1805
                    Macomb, John N.             1805
                    Phister, Alexander          1805
                    McEvers, Gulian             1805
                    Watson, James               1805
                    Kemp, Dr.                   1805
                    Jephson, William H.         1805
                    Chambers, James             1805
                    O’Connor, Capt.             1805
                    Keith, John                 1805
                    Prince, Christ’er           1806
                    McVicker, Nathan            1812
                    Bailey, William             1812
                    Carberry, Thomas            1812
                    Chambers, John              1812
                    Craig, John                 1812
                    Sterling, Wm.               1812
                    Macneven, Wm. Jas.          1815
                    Emmet, Thos. Addis          1815
                    McCarthy, Dennis            1815
                    Christian, Charles          1815
                    Woodward, John              1815
                    Montgomery, J.              1817
                    Magee, James                1817
                    Blood, Harris               1821
                    Andrews, David              1821
                    Nicholson, John             1821
                    Charters, John              1821
                    Kernochan, Jos. P.          1825
                    Laverty, Henry              1825
                    Moorehead, John             1825
                    Kyle, Wm.                   1825
                    Gray, Andrew                1825
                    Muldon, Michael             1825
                    Charters, S. M.             1825
                    Alexander, Joseph           1825
                    Lynch, General              1825
                    Montgomery, J. B.           1828
                    Cleary, Thomas              1828
                    FitzGerald, R. A.           1828
                    Buchanan, Jas., Jr.         1828
                    Ingham, Charles             1828
                    Wilson, John                1828
                    James, Wm.                  1828
                    Wright, John W.             1828
                    Hogan, Dr. Robert           1828
                    Cuming, Dr.                 1828
                    Cassidy, Christ’r           1828
                    Trenor, Dr.                 1830
                    Harvey, Jacob               1830
                    Bradish, Wheaton            1831
                    Persse, Dudley              1831
                    Sampson, William            1831
                    Dolan, John T.              1832
                    Eccleston, Edward           1832
                    Osborne, Samuel             1832
                    Boyd, Capt. Wm.             1832
                    Corbitt, George S.          1833
                    Fleming, John               1833
                    Bush, Dr. George            1833
                    Donaldson, Robert           1833
                    White, Robert               1833
                    White, Campbell P.          1833
                    Rice, Dr. G. C.             1833
                    Burke, Dr.                  1833
                    McBride, James              1833
                    Lambert, Charles            1833
                    Doyle, John                 1833
                    Tait, John, Jr.             1833
                    Emmet, Robert               1833
                    Brown, James C.             1835
                    Arnold, Dr. Wm.             1835
                    Dillon, Robert J.           1835
                    O’Neill, Capt. Felix        1835
                    Moorhead, John              1835
                    Usher, Luke                 1835
                    Chambers, J.                1835
                    Warren, J.                  1835
                    Montgomery, J. B., Jr.      1835
                    Redmond, Wm.                1835
                    Brown, Stewart              1835
                    Miller, James               1835
                    Foote, John                 1835
                    Charters, Samuel            1835
                    Cummin, Thomas A.           1835
                    Wright, Dr.                 1835
                    Charters, Alex.             1835
                    Millar, Jesse               1835
                    Maxwell, Matthew            1835
                    Power, Rev. John            1835
                    McAllister, Samuel          1835
                    Harden, Geo.                1835
                    Kane, Wm.                   1835
                    Alley, Saul                 1835
                    Adams, John                 1835
                    Brown, James                1835
                    Gillelan, E. H.             1835
                    Gibson, John                1835
                    Ingoldsby, Felix            1835
                    Niblo, W.                   1835
                    Nicholson, John             1835
                    Nichols, Samuel             1835
                    Dore, John                  1835
                    Buchanan, James C.          1835
                    Graham, Bernard             1835
                    Matthews, James             1835
                    McGloin, Edward             1835
                    Buchanan, Robert L.         1835
                    Bushe, George               1835
                    Bryar, James                1835
                    Burke, Michael              1835
                    Burke, Myles                1835
                    Cullen, Edward F.           1835
                    Cruise, Patrick R.          1835
                    Connolly, E.                1835
                    Cluff, John                 1835
                    Denniston, James            1835
                    Dunn, Bernard               1835
                    Daily, Patrick              1835
                    Doyle, Dennis H.            1835
                    Fox, John                   1835
                    Graham, David, Jr.,         1835
                    Gray, Andrew                1835
                    Grattan, E.                 1835
                    Hill, John                  1835
                    Haggerty, John              1835
                    Haggerty, Ogden             1835
                    Jackson, Daniel             1835
                    Jackson, George             1835
                    Jackson, Thomas             1835
                    Kyle, Jeremiah              1835
                    Kyle, Joseph                1835
                    Kelly, Robert               1835
                    Morrison, John              1835
                    Murray, Ham.                1835
                    McLaughlin, Peter           1835
                    Murphy, Thomas              1835
                    Mullen, John                1835
                    McKibben, Dr.               1835
                    McGrath, Daniel             1835
                    Niblo, John                 1835
                    O’Brien, William            1835
                    O’Brien, Francis            1835
                    Park, David                 1835
                    Patterson, Robert S.        1835
                    Powell, James W.            1835
                    Quinn, John                 1835
                    Rutherford, Robert          1835
                    Stinson, Edey               1835
                    Shaw, James                 1835
                    Shaw, William               1835
                    Thompson, Alex.             1835
                    Thompson, Alex. Jr.,        1835
                    Usher, Robert               1835
                    Wilson, Joseph              1835
                    Ennis, Thomas               1835
                    Kelly, William              1835


              COMPLETE ROLL OF MEMBERSHIP MARCH 17, 1835.

  Arnold, Dr. William
  Alley, Saul
  Adams, John
  Brown, James C.
  Brown, Stewart
  Bradish, Wheaton
  Brown, James
  Buchanan, James C.
  Buchanan, Robert L.
  Bushe, George
  Bryar, James
  Burke, Michael
  Burke, Myles
  Caldwell, John
  Corbitt, George S.
  Chambers, J.
  Charters, Alex.
  Charters, Samuel
  Cassidy, Christopher
  Cullen, Edward F.
  Cruise, Patrick R.
  Connolly, E.
  Cluff, John
  Cummin, Thomas A.
  Dillon, Robert J.
  Dore, John
  Denniston, James
  Dunn, Bernard
  Donaldson, Robert
  Doyle, John
  Daily, Patrick
  Doyle, Dennis H.
  Eccleston, Edward (Second Vice-President)
  Emmet, Robert
  Ennis, Thomas
  Foote, John
  Fox, John
  Gibson, John
  Graham, Bernard
  Gillelan, E. H.
  Graham, David, Jr.
  Gray, Andrew
  Grattan, E.
  Harvey, Jacob
  Hogan, Dr. Robert
  Harden, Geo.
  Hill, John
  Heeney, Cornelius
  Haggerty, John
  Haggerty, Ogden
  Ingoldsby, Felix
  Jackson, Daniel
  James, William
  Jackson, George
  Jackson, Thomas
  Kernochan, Joseph P.
  Kane, Wm.
  Kelly, John
  Kyle, Jeremiah
  Kyle, William
  Kyle, Joseph
  Kelly, Robert
  Kelly, William
  Lambert, Chas. (Almoner)
  Laverty, Henry
  Magee, James
  Moorhead, John
  Montgomery, J. B., Jr.
  Miller, James
  Millar, Jesse
  Maxwell, Matthew
  Matthews, James
  Morrison, John
  Matthews, James, Jr.
  Murray, Ham.
  Montgomery, James
  Murphy, Thomas
  Mullen, John
  Macneven, Wm. James
  McBride, James
  McGloin, Edward
  McLaughlin, Peter
  McAllister, Samuel
  McKibben, Dr.
  McGrath, Daniel
  McBride, George
  Niblo, William
  Nicholson, John
  Nichols, Samuel
  Niblo, John
  Osborne, Samuel (Treasurer)
  O’Neill, Capt. Felix
  O’Brien, William
  O’Brien, Francis
  Persse, Dudley (Secretary)
  Patterson, Robert S.
  Power, Rev. John
  Park, David
  Powell, James W.
  Quinn, John
  Redmond, William
  Rutherford, Robert
  Suffern, Thomas
  Sampson, William
  Stinson, Edey
  Shaw, James
  Shaw, William
  Trenor, Dr.
  Tait, John, Jr.
  Thompson, Alexander
  Thompson, Alex., Jr.
  Usher, Luke
  Usher, Robert
  Usher, William
  White, Campbell P. (President)
  Wilson, John (First Vice-President)
  Warren, J.
  White, Robert
  Wright, Dr.
  Wilson, Joseph

Its presidents have been noted merchants, financiers, jurists and
professional men. Daniel McCormick was the first president, serving from
1784 to 1788, and in 1793 and 1794, and again from 1797 to 1827. Other
presidents of this venerable Society were: William Constable, 1789, 1790
and 1795; Alexander Macomb, 1791; Thomas Roach, 1792; George Pollock,
1796; John Chambers, 1828 to 1833; James McBride, 1834; Campbell P.
White, 1835 to 1838; Dr. Robert Hogan, 1839 to 1842; James Reyburn, 1843
to 1850; Richard Bell, 1851–1852 and 1865; Joseph Stuart, 1853–1856 and
1866; Samuel Sloan, 1857–1858; Richard O’Gorman, 1859; Charles P. Daly,
1860–1862, 1870, 1878–1884; James T. Brady, 1863–1864; Henry L. Hoguet,
1867; John R. Brady, 1868 and 1871–1874; Eugene Kelly, 1869; Thomas
Barbour, 1875–1876; Hugh J. Hastings, 1877; Joseph J. O’Donohue,
1885–1886, 1888–1889; James R. Cuming, 1887; David McClure, 1890–1891;
John D. Crimmins, 1892–1894; James S. Coleman, 1895–1896; Morgan J.
O’Brien, 1897–1899; James A. O’Gorman, 1900–1902; James Fitzgerald,
1903–1905; Joseph I. C. Clarke, 1906; Michael J. Drummond, 1907; Stephen
Farrelly, 1908; William Temple Emmet, 1908–1909.


The surprising growth of New York is well shown by the steady march
up-town of the places where the anniversary dinners of the Society have
been held since its organization to the present time.

  1784 Cape’s Tavern. (Now No. 115 Broadway.)

  1785 The Coffee House. (Mr. Bradford’s, in Water Street, near Wall
         Street.)

  1786 The Coffee House.

  1787 The Coffee House.

  1788 Merchants’ Coffee House. (S. E. Cor. Wall and Water Streets.)

  1789 to 1794 The City Tavern. (115 Broadway.)

  1795 to 1803 The Tontine Coffee House. (N. W. Cor. Wall and Water
         Streets.)

  1804 The Old Coffee House. (In Water Street, near Wall Street.)

  1805 and 1806 The Tontine Coffee House.

  1807 Phoenix Coffee House. (Wall Street.)

  1808 Mechanics’ Hall. (N. W. Cor. Broadway and Park Place.)

  1809 to 1815 The Tontine Coffee House.

  1816 Washington Hall. (Now No. 280 Broadway.)

  1817 The Tontine Coffee House.

  1818 to 1832 The Bank Coffee House. (S. E. Cor. Pine and William
         Streets.)

  1833 to 1835 The City Hotel. (115 Broadway.)

  1836 and 1837 Washington Hotel. (No. 1 Broadway.)

  1838 Carlton House. (N. E. Cor. Broadway and Leonard Streets.)

  1839 City Hotel.

  1840 Niblo’s Tavern. (Broadway and Prince Street.)

  1841 to 1846 City Hotel.

  1847 and 1848 No dinners—Irish famine years.

  1849 City Hotel.

  1850 Delmonico’s Hotel. (William Street.)

  1851 to 1856 Astor House.

  1857 to 1862 Metropolitan Hotel.

  1863 Delmonico’s. (Broadway and Chambers Street.)

  1864 to 1868 Delmonico’s. (14th Street and Fifth Avenue.)

  1869 and 1870 St. James Hotel.

  1871 Hoffman House.

  1872 Hotel Brunswick.

  1873 and 1874 Delmonico’s. (14th Street and Fifth Avenue.)

  1875 Hoffman House.

  1876 and 1877 Delmonico’s. (14th Street and Fifth Avenue.)

  1878 Metropolitan Hotel.

  1879 and 1880 Delmonico’s. (14th Street and Fifth Avenue.)

  1881 to 1883 Delmonico’s. (Madison Square.)

  1884 Hotel Brunswick.

  1885 to 1895 Delmonico’s. (Madison Square.)

  1896 Hotel Savoy.

  1897 Waldorf.

  1898 Waldorf-Astoria.

  1899 to 1908 Delmonico’s. (Fifth Avenue and 44th Street.)

[Illustration:

  HON. PATRICK GARVAN.

  Of Hartford, Conn.

  A Life Member of the Society.
]


                                 NOTE.

Mr. Lenehan is the Chairman of the Membership Committee of the American
Irish Historical Society, through whose efforts and ability 250 members
have been added to the Society’s rolls between the time of his
appointment in June, 1908, and January 16th, 1909, the date of the
eleventh annual meeting in Washington, D. C. New applications from him
have been coming in almost daily since the latter date. We look forward
to at least an equal number of new members being admitted during 1909,
and the Society hereby expresses the highest praise of Mr. Lenehan for
his faithful and fruitful efforts in its behalf. Under his guidance, the
printed matter which has gone forth during 1908 throughout the country
has been prepared and circulated, and in his work he is receiving the
cordial support of all the members.

Although in the midst of a busy life as a successful practising lawyer,
Mr. Lenehan finds time to give valuable assistance by word and deed to
these two great national societies, The Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and
the American Irish Historical Society, both of which claim him as an
honored member.

                                                                 EDITOR.




                        EARLY MARINE “WIRELESS.”

                        BY EDGAR STANTON MACLAY.


Not the least valuable of the many practical lessons taught by the
cruise of the Atlantic battleship fleet around the world was the
demonstration of the possibility of following from Washington almost
every day’s move of the great white ships from their departure from
Hampton Roads to their return, by means of wireless telegraphy and other
methods of transmitting information. It is a cardinal point in the
strategy of naval warfare to be thoroughly advised, first, of the
location, disposition and conditions of your own ships and, second, the
same of your adversary’s.

Some idea of the stupendous advances made in this most important detail
may be gained by a comparison with the “wireless” marine telegraphy of a
century ago when, although electricity had not been harnessed to the
news bureau, ingenious methods of maintaining a “marine telegraph” were
operative which, in some instances, were most surprising in their
results.

At the outbreak of the War of 1812 our government planned a crushing
blow at British commerce. A fleet of 100 English merchantmen from
Jamaica was expected to pass close to the North American coast and the
most formidable squadron we could then assemble, consisting of the
frigates _President_, _United States_ and _Congress_, with the sloop and
brig _Hornet_ and _Argus_, under the command of Captain John Rodgers,
was held in New York ready to sail. As soon as war was declared, June
18, 1812, a courier set out from Washington and in three days arrived in
New York—quick work for those days, but the information now could be
flashed in a few seconds.

One hour after receiving the news Rodgers got under way and on the
morning of the second day out spoke an American vessel and learned from
her master that he had seen the Jamaica fleet only two days before.
Rodgers made sail in the direction indicated, but he was drawn away in a
futile chase after the British frigate _Belvidera_. Afterward, however,
he resumed his pursuit of the merchant fleet and on July 1 he detected
“quantities of cocoanut shells and orange peels” in the water, which
showed that he was in the wake of the fleet. He followed this sea-trail
several days and was rapidly overtaking the chase, when he lost it in
the fogs on the Newfoundland Banks.

Floating bottles, pieces of wreckage, cask-heads and other ship debris
were the “clicks” of the first “marine wireless” that assisted our early
mariners in discovering the whereabouts of friend or foe on the high
seas. And even a marine “postoffice” was a service recognized early in
the 19th century—many years before it came into general use on land.
When our 32-gun frigate _Essex_ was making her memorable cruise in the
Pacific Ocean, 1813–1814, Captain David Porter records that he stopped
at Charles Island of the Galapagos in the southern Pacific Ocean to
examine the “postoffice”—a box nailed to a tree in which whalers and
other craft deposited records of their cruises and intended movements.

That these ocean “postoffices” were sometimes used for “misinformation”
is shown in the case of this same Captain Porter. One of these “postal
stations” in the Atlantic was the penal island of Fernando de Noronha,
off the extreme eastern limit of Brazil. This was a point usually
touched by vessels bound for the Cape of Good Hope or Cape Horn. While
Porter was cruising in the south Atlantic under orders to join the
_Constitution_ and _Hornet_, he hove-to off this port on December 14,
1812, and sending a boat ashore learned that there was a letter there
addressed to “Sir James Yeo, of the British 32-gun frigate
_Southampton_.” He also learned that only the week before the English
44-gun frigate “_Acasta_ and the 20-gun sloop of war _Morgiana_” had
stopped at that port and had sailed for Rio de Janeiro, leaving a letter
addressed to “Sir James Yeo.”

Before sailing from the United States Porter had been instructed to pose
as Sir James Yeo and was to join the _Constitution_ and _Hornet_, which
two vessels were to pass as the _Acasta_ and _Morgiana_, off Cape Frio,
Brazil. This was done to deceive the enemy. When Porter learned that
there was a letter at Fernando de Noronha addressed to “Sir James Yeo,”
he at once sent a present of porter and cheese to the governor of the
island and received the coveted letter. It was found to contain the
usual references of a voyage by a British commander, but some “key
words” induced Porter to hold the letter to the flame of a candle, when
the following instructions, written in sympathetic ink, became legible:
“I am bound off Bahia, thence off Cape Frio, where I intend to cruise
until the 1st of January. Go off Cape Frio, to the northward of Rio de
Janeiro, and keep a lookout for me. Your friend.”

Captain Porter did as ordered, but on December 29 the _Constitution_
captured, after a hard fight, the British frigate _Java_, and soon
afterward the _Hornet_ sank the English sloop of war _Peacock_. This
left the _Essex_ free to choose her own course and the result was her
memorable cruise of two years in the Pacific.

But the most remarkable instance of early marine wireless was that of
the chase after the _Constitution_ from Boston, across the Atlantic, by
a powerful British squadron, which, on March 10, 1815, cornered _Old
Ironsides_ in Port Praya, near the extreme western coast of Africa, on
the very day she entered that harbor and just seventy-six days after the
hostile vessels had sailed from the blockade of the New England port.

For more than eight months British cruisers had been holding the dreaded
_Constitution_—then commanded by Captain Charles Stewart—in the Hub,
but, late in December, 1814, she gave them the slip and once again was
in blue water. Running down to Bermuda, where he captured the merchant
ship _Lord Nelson_, Stewart stood across the Atlantic to the Madeiras
and then cruised for several days within sight of the Rock of Lisbon.
Shaping her course southward again the _Constitution_, on February 20,
1815, after a brilliant fight, captured the British cruisers _Cyane_ and
_Levant_ and with his two prizes entered Port Praya on the morning of
March 10.

Soon after the _Constitution_ made her escape from Boston, a terrific
snow storm, lasting several days, compelled the English blockading
squadron to take refuge in Cape Cod Bay. On December 22, while the
British officers were making themselves as comfortable as they could in
the bitter cold, the English 18-gun brig sloop _Arab_, Captain Henry
Jane, arrived with the startling information that the _Constitution_ had
escaped. At once there was a hurrying and scurrying for immediate
pursuit. Provisions, bought at an exorbitant price from the canny
landfolk, were hurried aboard and every preparation was made for a chase
of indefinite length.

But in what direction were they to pursue? Absolutely nothing is
recorded in the log of the British flagship as to what course the
_Constitution_ had taken. Here nautical sagacity, aided by the “wireless
telegraphy” then so remarkably in use on the high seas, came to the aid
of the British senior officer of the blockading force—Sir George
Collier, of the 50-gun frigate _Leander_. Sir George sagely conjectured
that the _Flying Yankee_ would most likely take a southern course so as
to escape the bitterly cold winter of New England. In those days there
were no means for heating the cabins, wardroom, steerage or berth decks
of ships, so a prolonged stay in the higher latitudes was a problem to
be seriously considered. Selecting the 50-gun frigate _Newcastle_,
Captain Lord George Stuart, and the 40-gun frigate _Acasta_, Captain
Kerr, to accompany him, Sir George, on December 24th, made sail in a
blind chase southward.

It seems that on the night of December 21st the famous American
privateer, _Prince de Neuchâtel_, also escaped from Boston and made the
same course the _Constitution_ had taken. When only a day or so out she
ran into the same storm that drove the English blockading ships into
Cape Cod Bay.

On the morning of December 28, just as the gale was abating and only
four days after the British squadron sailed, Sir George overtook the
_Prince de Neuchâtel_ and captured her; and from some of the Englishmen
who were aboard the privateer learned somewhat of the proposed itinerary
of the _Constitution_. With this first direct trace of his game, the
British commander shaped his course across the Atlantic for the coast of
Spain.

How eager the English were to capture the _Constitution_, above all
other American frigates, may be seen in the record of a sailor who was
in the _Prince de Neuchâtel_ at the time. He says that after being taken
aboard the _Leander_ as a prisoner he noticed a large placard nailed to
her mainmast, which read as follows:


                                 REWARD.

  “A reward of One Hundred pounds sterling to the man who shall first
  descry the American frigate _Constitution_, provided she can be
  brought to, and a smaller reward should they not be enabled to come up
  with her.”


This same sailor writes: “Every one [in the _Leander_] was eager in his
inquiries about this far-famed frigate and most of the men appeared
anxious to fall in with her, she being a constant theme of conversation,
speculation and curiosity. There were, however, two seamen and a
marine—one of whom had had his shin sadly shattered from one of her
grape-shot—who were in the frigate _Java_ when she was captured. These I
have often heard say, in return to their shipmates’ boastings: ‘If you
had seen as much of the _Constitution_ as we have, you would give her a
wide berth, for she throws her shot almighty careless, fires quick, aims
low and is, altogether, an ugly customer.’”

Continuing on his trail of the much-coveted Yankee frigate, Sir George,
on January 4, 1815,—seven days after sailing—while off the Western
Isles, received another “wireless click” when he picked up a prize brig
belonging to the American privateer _Perry_ and from her master learned
that the _Perry_ had spoken the _Constitution_ only a few days before,
on a course that would indicate that she was making for the coast of
Spain. As a matter of fact, this powerful British squadron was at that
moment only a few hours’ sail from the _Constitution_.

Touching at the port of Fayal, January 13th, 1815, Sir George’s chase
after _Old Ironsides_ nearly terminated in disaster. A record left by
one of the American prisoners in the _Leander_ says: “We ran in with a
southwest wind that had freshened to a stiff breeze till coming under
the lee of the Peak of Pico, opposite to Fayal. This aided a little in
breaking the wind and the heavy swell which came rolling in from the
open sea beyond. Immediately to leeward was a rocky, perpendicular bluff
of three hundred feet in height, which the sea was breaking against with
the greatest fury.

“I had taken my perch upon the booms so as to have a chance of clearly
seeing the working of the frigate, as well as the different objects of
curiosity within my range.... The anchor was let go and the cable spun
out to its entire length with the most fearful swiftness. But when all
was out the frigate still went, stern-on, toward the bluff, as though
the anchor was yet at the cathead. When she had drifted so as to be
without the shelter of the Peak and exposed to the wind and heavy swell,
both driving her on to inevitable destruction, unless suddenly checked
in her course, none was so blind as not to see the peril, the almost
instant annihilation with which the frigate was threatened, and in a
twinkling it was known that the anchor had not taken hold, but was
dragging.

“What means were adopted for the safety of the ship I know not, for my
curiosity had full employment in following the old commodore [Sir George
Collier] about the deck in his mad ravings. I have read and heard much
of the coolness, intrepidity and readiness of the English naval officers
in all sudden cases of emergency and danger; and this commodore was one
of the oldest in commission and a staunch veteran in the service. He had
seen long service, fought many a fight, been slashed and cut to
disfiguration—as his numerous scars plainly told—had had one of his legs
broken at three different places, at three separate periods between the
hip and knee, each setting worse than the last, making his leg crooked,
more crooked, most crooked.

“When he saw that the frigate was gathering sternway toward the bluff,
he raved, stormed and swore at the ship, cable, anchor, officers, men,
boys, hell and the devil, clinching each oath separately by a whack of
his cane at and on everything within his reach. Now he was running
toward the wheel at the stern, then furiously driving across the deck to
the hawseholes at the bow, tacking first to larboard, then to the
starboard side of the ship; yelling at the first lieutenant for not
making the anchor hold on, swearing at the anchor for not obeying the
lieutenant, damning the cable for not being longer, the water for being
so deep, the bottom for lying so low; and, at last, when he had nothing
else to crisp with his red-hot blessings, he blasted his own eyes,
heart, liver and lights, winding up with a curse upon the prisoners,
conveying their souls in a trice to the lower regions without benefit of
clergy, for being the cause of all the disasters in store for him and
his frigate—henceforth and forever.

“I was as fully sensible of the danger of our situation as any one, but
I could not suppress my laughter at the antics which this hero of many
wars was cutting about the decks. I have no simile nor comparison for
his movements, for, verily, there is none. It was not a
hitch-and-go-ahead, nor a half-hitch and side lurch; neither was it a
back-and-fill, balance-haul or a bob-and-hop, straddling slide. No more
like a cock-and-primed, tip-toe dance than a toe-and-heel,
fore-and-after is like a cut-and-thrust, forward-spring, a
back-staggering or blinker-wiper. It partook of the whole in about equal
parts. In fact, I could liken his run with his crooked leg to nothing
but the effort of the crab to walk upright upon a slippery surface,
doggedly intent to win the wager of the half-blown terrapin, who, in the
same attitude, is being balked in his first trial at the double-shuffle
by attempting it in a wig, gown and Wellingtons instead of short-cuts
and pumps and going at it with sleeves rolled up as an honest one
should.

“At last the second anchor brought her up, and lucky it was that it did,
for she had drifted within a few minutes’ distance of the bluff, where
the frigate would not have held together five minutes. With the
freshened winds and lashing waves throwing the spray mast-high, every
soul on board must have been lost, for the water was deep and the first
thing the frigate would have struck was the perpendicular cliff—three
hundred feet high and of unknown depth below.”

After this narrow escape Sir George transferred his prisoners to the
sloop of war _Pheasant_ and, after replenishing his stores, resumed his
chase after the Yankee frigate. Just what course was pursued by the
commander from this point is not shown in American or British records.
It is a fact, however, that the presence of the _Constitution_ in
European waters was known in many ocean ports and that several British
cruisers were sent out from Lisbon, Gibraltar and other nearby ports to
intercept her.

It was, undoubtedly, by means of this “wireless marine telegraphy” that
Sir George so shaped his course, after leaving Fayal, that he arrived
off Port Praya, March 10, 1815, only a few hours after the
_Constitution_ with her two prizes, the _Cyane_ and _Levant_, had
entered that harbor. The miraculous escape of the American frigate from
Sir George’s overwhelming force in the offing of Port Praya is a matter
of history. It is recorded that he was so chagrined over the
extraordinary escape of the _Constitution_—after he had so successfully
followed her, by means of the first “marine wireless,” across the
Atlantic—that ten years afterward, on being reminded of the incident, he
committed suicide.




    SKETCHES OF WILLIAM DUNLAP, THOMAS P. JOHNSON AND THOMAS SHARP,
       DISTINGUISHED IRISH AMERICANS DURING REVOLUTIONARY TIMES.

   BY JAMES L. O’NEILL OF ELIZABETH, N. J., A MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE
                                COUNCIL.

The following short series of articles relate to distinguished people of
our race who played prominent parts in the stirring scenes during the
Revolution, and whose memoirs are full of interesting anecdotes and
descriptions of those times.

William Dunlap, son of Samuel Dunlap, who was a native of Ireland,
Thomas P. Johnson, one of the prominent members of the New Jersey Bar
100 years ago, and others are referred to. Mr. Dunlap himself, in his
memoirs, gives a graphic description of Revolutionary scenes in New
Jersey. Another of the articles is a history by Thomas Sharp, a member
of the Society of Friends, of Newton, Gloucester County, N. J. The brief
history is here quoted exactly as compiled by the ancient author, and
its quaint language, with its disregard for spelling and construction,
is interesting. Thatcher, a military writer of that time, gives a
characteristic anecdote of Washington, which is here appended.


                  REVOLUTIONARY TIMES IN PERTH AMBOY.

Perth Amboy, N. J., was the home of Governor Franklin, who was made a
prisoner by the Colonials in the Revolution, and sent to Connecticut for
safe-keeping.

William Dunlap, painter and author, was also a native of Perth Amboy,
and a graphic description of “olden times” is contained in his own
memoirs in his “History of the Arts of Design.” He says:

“I was born in the city of Perth Amboy and province of New Jersey. My
father, Samuel Dunlap, was a native of the north of Ireland and son of a
merchant of Londonderry. In youth he was devoted to the army and bore
the colors of the Forty-seventh Regiment, ‘Wolfe’s Own,’ on the Plains
of Abraham. He was borne wounded from the field on which his commander
triumphed and died. After the French war, Dunlap, then a lieutenant in
the Forty-Seventh, and stationed at Perth Amboy, married Margaret
Sargent, of that place, and retired from the army to the quiet of a
country town and country store. The 19th of February, 1766, is
registered as the date of my birth, and being an only child, the
anniversary of the important day was duly celebrated by my indulgent
parents. Of education I had none, in the usual sense of the word, owing
to circumstances I shall mention, and much of that which is to the child
most essential was bad.

“Holding negroes in slavery was, in those days, the common practice, and
the voices of those who protested against the custom were not heeded.
Every house in my native place where any servants were to be seen
swarmed with black slaves. My father’s kitchen had several families of
them, of all ages and all born in the family except one, who was called
a new negro, and who had his face tattooed. His language was scarcely
intelligible, though he had been long in the country, and was an old
man. These blacks indulged me, of course, and I sought the kitchen as
the place to find playmates and amusements suited to my taste. Thus in
the mirth and games of the negroes, and the variety of visitors of the
black race who frequented the place, my desires were shaped. This may be
considered my first school, and, indeed, such was the education of many
a boy in the states where the practice of slavery continued. The infant
was taught to tyrannize, the boy was taught to despise labor, the mind
of the child was contaminated by hearing and seeing that which, perhaps,
was not understood at the time but which remained in the memory. These
kitchen associations were increased during a part of the Revolution by
soldiers, who found their mess fare improved by visiting the negroes,
and by servants of officers billeted in the house.


“Perth Amboy being now in the possession of the British, my father
returned with his family to his home, and I saw in my native town,
particularly after the battles of Princeton and Trenton, all the
discomforts of a crowded camp and garrison. An army which had recently
passed in triumph from the sea to the banks of the Delaware, and chosen
its winter quarters at pleasure, was now driven in, crowded upon a shore
washed by the Atlantic, and defended by the guns of the ships which had
borne it thence.

“I have elsewhere compared the scenes I now witnessed to the dramatic
scenes of Wallenstein’s Lager. Here was centered in addition to the
soldiery cantoned at the place all those drawn in from the Delaware,
Princeton and Brunswick, together with the flower of the army, English,
Scotch, and German, which had been brought in from Rhode Island. Here
was to be seen a party of the Forty-Second Highlanders in national
costume, and there a regiment of Hessians, their dress and arms a wide
contrast to the first. The slaves of Anspach and Waldeck were there, the
first somber as night, the second gaudy as noonday. Here dashed by a
party of the Seventeenth dragoons, and there scampered a party of
Yagers. The trim, neat and graceful English Grenadier, the careless and
half-savage Highlander, with his flowing robes and naked knees, and the
stiff German, could hardly be taken as members of one army. Here might
be seen soldiers driving in cattle, and others guarding wagons loaded
with household furniture instead of the hay and oats they had been sent
for.

“The landing of the grenadiers and light infantry from the ships which
transported the troops from Rhode Island; their proud march into the
hostile neighborhood, to gather the produce of the farmer for the
garrison; the sound of the musketry, which soon rolled back upon us; the
return of the disabled veterans who could retrace their steps; and the
heavy march of the discomfited troops, with their wagons of groaning
wounded, in the evening, are all impressed on my mind as pictures of the
horrors and the soul-stirring events of war.

“These scenes and others more disgusting—the flogging of English men and
thumping and caning of German—which even my tender years could not
prevent me from seeing all around, and the increased disorder among my
fathers’ negroes, from mingling with the servants of officers, these
were my sources of instruction in the winter of 1776–1777.”

[Illustration:

  JAMES H. DEVLIN. Jr.,

  Of Boston, Mass.

  President of the Boston Charitable Irish Society, now in its 172d
    Year.
]


         THOMAS P. JOHNSON, NOTED LAWYER ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

Among the distinguished men who have adorned the New Jersey bar few, in
their day, were held in higher repute for eloquence and extensive legal
knowledge, and especially for intellectual vigor and versatility of
talent, than Thomas P. Johnson.

He was born about the year 1761. His parents were Friends. His father,
William Johnson, a native of Ireland, emigrated to this country about
1747. He married Ruth Potts, of Trenton. Thomas was their second child.
When he was quite small the family removed to Charleston, S. C., where
the father established a flourishing boarding-school and gained much
repute by his lectures on various branches of Natural Philosophy. His
fondness for such studies seemed to have been inherited by the son, who
even in his later years continued to turn his attention to them. The
father died in the South, after a residence of some years there. The
mother, with five children, returned to her native state, and with the
aid of her brother opened a store in Trenton. There Thomas was placed an
apprentice to a carpenter[3] and joiner. After following this business
some time he was compelled, by a rupture of a blood vessel in the lungs,
to abandon it. He then engaged in teaching in Hunterdom County and
afterwards in Bucks County, Pa.—later then in Philadelphia. For this
profession he had rare qualifications. Few men had such powers of
communication; few could so simplify truth, and throw an interest around
it to captivate the youthful mind.

Footnote 3:

  The annexed anecdote was communicated to the compiler by a resident of
  Trenton: At one of the neighboring courts a dispute arose between
  Johnson and his opponent respecting a point of law, during which the
  latter remarked in a taunting, derisive manner, “That he was not to be
  taught law by a carpenter.” “May it please your honors,” replied Mr.
  Johnson, “the gentleman has been pleased to allude to my having been a
  carpenter. True, I was a carpenter. I am proud of it. So was our Lord
  and Saviour. And I could yet, given a block of wood, a mallet and a
  chisel, hew something that would very much resemble that gentleman’s
  head. True, I could not put in brains, but it would have more
  manners.”

While in Philadelphia a mercantile house took him in partnership, and
sent him to Richmond, Va., where the firm opened a large store. There he
became well acquainted with Chief Justice Marshall, and often had the
privilege of listening to the first lawyers in the Old Dominion. This
probably led to his turning his thoughts to the bar. After a few years
the loss of his store and goods by fire caused him to return to the
scenes of his youthful days. He took up his residence at Princeton,
there married a daughter of Robert Stockton, and entered his name as a
student of law in the office of the Hon. Richard Stockton. In due time
he was admitted to the bar as an attorney and counselor. His career was
brilliant. Whether arguing points of law, or spreading a case before a
jury, he was always heard with fixed attention and lively interest. So
lucid was he in arranging and expressing his thoughts, so quick to seize
hold of strong points in a case, and, when he pleased, so well able to
touch the chords of feeling, that he rarely failed to produce an
impression.

He was no indifferent student of the great political questions. With the
majority of the New Jersey bar, he belonged to the Washington school,
and exerted all his energies in what he honestly conceived to be his
country’s real interests. For his brethren of the New Jersey bar he
cherished a warm attachment, and they were forward in evincing their
high esteem of his worth. A few years before his death a number of them
obtained the services of an artist and had a full-length portrait of him
executed. This now hangs over the judge’s chair in the court-room at
Flemington. He died March 12, 1838.


              HISTORY OF NEWTON, GLOUCESTER COUNTY, N. J.

Newton, Gloucester County, N. J., was early settled by the society of
Friends. The following history was written by Thomas Sharp, the first
conveyancer and surveyor of the county:


  “Let it be remembered. It having wrought upon ye minds of some,
  Friends that dwelt in Ireland, a pressure having laid upon them for
  some years which they could not get from under the weight of until
  they gave upp to leave their friends and relations there, together
  with a comfortable subsistence to transport themselves and familys
  into this wilderness part of America, and there by expose themselves
  to difficulties, which, if they could have been easy where they were,
  in all probability might never have been met with; and in order
  thereunto, sent from Dublin in Ireland to one Thomas Lurtin a friend
  in London commander of a Pink, who accordingly came, and made an
  agreement with him to transport them and their familys into New
  Jersey, viz.; Mark Newby and family. Thomas Thackarg and family,
  William Bate and family, George Goldsmith an old man, and Thomas
  Sharp, a young man, but no familys; and whilst the ship abode in
  Dublin harbor providing for the voyage, said Thomas Lurtin was taken
  so ill that could not perform ye same, so that his mate, John Dagger,
  undertook it. And upon the 19 day of September, in the year of our
  Lord, 1681, we sett sail, from the place aforesaid, and through the
  good Providence of God towards us we arrived at Elsinburg, in the
  country of Salem, upon the 19 day of November following, where we were
  well entertained at the houses of the Thomsons, who came from Ireland
  about four years before, who, by their industry, were arrived to a
  very good degree of living, and from thence we went to Salem, where
  were several houses yet were vacant of persons who had left the town
  to settle in ye country, which serve to accommodate them for ye
  winter, proving moderate, we at Wickacog, among us, purchased a boat
  of the Swansons, and so went to Burlington to the commissioners, of
  whom we obtained a warrant of ye surveyor general, which then was
  Daniel Leeds; and after some considerable search to and fro in that
  then was called the third or Irish tenth, we at last pitched upon the
  place now called Newton, which was before the settlement of Phila; Pa;
  and then applied to S,d Surveyor, who came and laid it out for us; and
  the next Spring, being the beginning of the year 1682 we all removed
  from Salem together with Robert Lane, that had been settled there, who
  came along from Ireland with the Thomsons before hinted, and having
  expectation of our coming only bought a lot in Salemtown, upon the
  which he seated himself until our coming, whose proprietary right and
  ours being of the same nature, could not then take it up in Fenwicks
  tenth, and so began our settlement; and although we were at times
  pretty hard bestead, having all our provisions as far as Salem to
  fetch by water, yet, through the mercy and kindness of God, we were
  preserved in health and from any extreme difficulties.

  “And immediately there was a meeting sett upp and kept at the house of
  Mark Newby, and in a short time it grew and increased, unto which
  William Cooper and family, that lived at the Poynte resorted, and
  sometimes the meeting was kept at his house, who had been settled
  sometime before. Zeal and fervency of spirit was what, in some degree,
  at that time abounded among friends, in commemoration of our
  prosperous success and eminent preservation, both in our coming over
  the great deep as also that whereas we were but few at that time, and
  the Indians many, where by it put a dread upon our spirits,
  considering they were a savage people; but ye Lord, that hath the
  hearts of all in his hands, which cannot be otherwise accounted but to
  be the Lord doings in our favor, which we had cause to praise his name
  for.

  “And that the rising generation may consider that the Settlement of
  the country was directed by an impulse upon tranquility, but rather
  for the posterity yet should be after, and that the wilderness being
  planted with a good seed, might grow and increase to the satisfaction
  of the good husbandman. But instead thereof, if for wheat it should
  bring forth tares, they themselves will suffer loss.

  “This narration I have thought good and requisite to leave behind, as
  having had knowledge of things from the beginning.”


                        ANECDOTE OF WASHINGTON.

Thatcher, in his Military Journal, gives a vivid description of the
sufferings of the troops during “the hard winter of 1779–1780,” at
Morristown, N. J. He says:


  “Morristown, January 1st, 1780. A new year commences, but brings no
  relief to the sufferings and privations of our army. Our canvass
  covering affords but a miserable security from storms of rain and
  snow, and a great scarcity of provisions still prevails, its effects
  being felt even at headquarters, as appears by the following anecdote:
  ‘We have nothing but the rations to cook, Sir,’ said _Mrs. Thomson_, a
  very worthy _Irish woman_, and _housekeeper_ to _General Washington_.
  ‘Well, Mrs. Thomson, you must then cook the rations, for I have not a
  farthing to give you.’ ‘If you please, Sir, let one of the gentlemen
  give me an order for six bushels of salt.’ ‘Six bushels of salt for
  what?’ ‘To preserve the fresh beef, Sir.’ One of the aids gave the
  order and the next day his Excellency’s table was amply provided. Mrs.
  Thomson was sent for, and told that she had done very wrong to expend
  her own money, for it was not known when she could be repaid. ‘I owe
  you,’ said his Excellency, ‘too much already to permit the debt being
  increased, and our situation is not at this moment such as to induce
  sanguine hope.’ ‘Dear Sir,’ said the good old lady, ‘it is always
  darkest just before the daylight, and I hope your Excellency will
  forgive me for bartering the salt for other necessaries which are now
  on the table.’ Salt was eight dollars a bushel, and it might always be
  exchanged with the country people for articles of provision.”


[Illustration:

  HON. JAMES CUNNINGHAM.

  Of Portland, Me.

  Vice-President of the Society for Maine.
]


                        CUMBERLAND COUNTY, N. J.

Baptist Church at Cohansey. As early as the year 1683 some Baptists from
Tipperary, in Ireland, settled in the neighborhood of Cohansey. The most
prominent persons were David Sheppard, Thomas Abbott, and William
Button.

Emigrants flocked into Cohansey from Ireland and it is very probable
that a Presbyterian Society was formed about the year 1700 or earlier.
Rev. Robert Kelsey, who was from Ireland, used to preach for the
Baptists.




  THE FIRST CENSUS OF THE UNITED STATES. SOME POINTED COMMENTS ON THE
MANNER OF TAKING SAME AND THE RESULTS THEREOF. AN INTERESTING PAPER ON A
             SUBJECT NOT HERETOFORE TOUCHED BY THE SOCIETY.

  BY MICHAEL J. O’BRIEN OF NEW YORK CITY, AUTHOR OF “A GLANCE AT SOME
 PIONEER IRISH IN THE SOUTH,” IN VOLUME VII OF THE JOURNAL, AND OF MANY
                  OTHER WORKS OF HISTORICAL RESEARCH.


By an Act of Congress, entitled “An act providing for the enumeration of
the inhabitants of the United States,” and which was signed by President
Washington on March 1, 1790, the marshals of the judicial districts
throughout the United States were “authorized and required to cause the
number of the inhabitants within their respective districts to be taken,
omitting in such enumeration Indians not taxed, and distinguishing free
persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, from all
others.” These returns they were instructed to file with the clerks of
their respective District Courts, who were directed to carefully
preserve them.

This was the FIRST CENSUS taken of the inhabitants of the United States,
but it was far from complete, for the reason that “heads of families”
only were recorded.

Eighteen months were allowed in which to complete the enumeration. The
census-taking was supervised by the marshals of the several judicial
districts, who employed assistant marshals to act as enumerators.

When the schedules were all gathered in, they were turned over to the
President, who, on October 27, 1791, transmitted to Congress a summary
of the result, which was published in what is now a very rare little
volume that has not been reprinted for public use. The original
schedules are contained in 26 bound volumes and are still preserved in
the Census Office. They form a curious and most interesting collection,
written as they were by the assistant marshals, “on such paper as they
happened to have, and binding the sheets together. In some cases printed
blanks furnished by the States were used, in others merchants’ account
paper, and now and then the schedules were bound in wall paper.”

A complete set of schedules for each State, with a summary for the
Counties, and in many cases for towns, was filed in the State
Department, but, unfortunately, they are not now complete, “the returns
for the States of Delaware, Georgia, Kentucky, New Jersey, Tennessee and
Virginia having been destroyed when the British burned the Capitol at
Washington during the War of 1812.”

In 1907, Congress authorized the Director of the Census to publish, in a
permanent form, the First Census of the United States. “These
schedules,” says the Director of the Census, “form a unique inheritance
for the nation, since they represent for each of the States a complete
list of the heads of families in the United States at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution. The framers were the statesmen and leaders
of thought, but those whose names appear upon the schedules of the First
Census were in general the plain citizens, who, by their conduct in war
and peace, made the Constitution possible, and by their intelligence and
self-restraint put it into successful operation.”

The First Census has a peculiar interest for Americans of Irish blood or
descent, for here we find irrefutable evidence of the racial origin of a
large part of the people of the United States a few years after the
close of the Revolutionary war. There is, of course, no standard, or
fixed rule or principle, by which an absolutely correct judgment on the
question of the racial composition of the early inhabitants of the
United States can now be formed. The available statistics on the subject
are incomplete and confusing.

But, if names are to be accepted as a criterion, those who examine the
Census Returns, in conjunction with the records of land grants, the
parochial registers, the Colonial Records that have been collected and
edited by the secretaries of state, the court and church records, the
Revolutionary rosters, the old newspapers, the Registers of Historical
Associations, and other similarly reliable records, must at once
conclude that a goodly percentage of the people were of old Irish stock.

It must be borne in mind also that the Census enumerators made no
returns of unmarried persons. This fact is important, when we place
beside it the statements of reliable historians that the Irish exodus of
the 18th century largely comprised the youth of the country. From the
records which we have already quoted, we know that thousands of the
Irish youth became indentured servants after their arrival in the
Colonies, and it is not likely that these people, even though married
while still in servitude, were considered of sufficient importance by
the census enumerators to be included in the lists of the “heads of
families.”

One who examines these records for traces of the Irish settlers will be
surprised to find a most inviting field of retrospect and research ever
widening before him. We do not need to wander into the field of romance,
as some writers occasionally do, in search of proof that at the
beginnings of the Nation the Celtic element figured to a larger extent
than it has been credited with at the hands of our historians.

There is so much of dry fact concerning them in these hitherto obscure
records as to make it a perplexing thought for the investigator where to
begin upon an exposition of the part played by the Irish Colonists and
their descendants in shaping the destinies of the future Republic.
Theirs is generally a prosaic story of trials bravely borne, of
victories snatched from rude nature in the face of many difficulties.
The pioneer settlers lived a simple but rude life on the frontiers of
civilization, free from the artificialities of our latter-day mode of
living, but they made the wilderness which they found to blossom as the
rose and to become a fair habitation for the generations that have
succeeded them.

Their story would hardly be worth relating were it not for the fact that
it affords the proof that men and women of our race and blood were of
the “warp and woof” from which has been evolved the new and composite
race, miscalled “Anglo-Saxon,” which has made this Western Hemisphere
the leader among the nations of the civilized world.

It is in the Census of the Southern States that Irish names appear in
the greatest numbers. During the first half of the 18th century there
were large immigrations of Irish people to the Carolinas, who spread
themselves over an immense area, reaching from the Santee river to the
eastern boundary line of Georgia, and as far north as the dividing line
of North Carolina. Doubtless, the majority of those on the Census
Returns bearing Irish names were descendants of those early settlers,
rather than natives of Ireland.

The historian Lossing says: “Between the years 1730 and 1740 an Irish
settlement was planted near the Santee river in South Carolina, to which
was given the name of Williamsburg Township. Up the Pedee, Santee,
Edisto, Savannah and Black rivers settlements spread rapidly, and soon
the axe and the plough were plying with mighty energy, and from the
North of Ireland such numbers departed for Carolina that the
depopulation of whole districts was threatened.”

Williamsburg he calls a “hotbed of rebellion” during the Revolutionary
war. As soon as General Francis Marion received his commission from
Governor Rutledge, we are told, “he sped to the district of Williamsburg
between the Santee and Pedee to lead its rising patriots to the field of
active military duties.” (The rosters of General Marion’s brigade
contain a large number of Irish names.)

Ramsay also refers to these Irish settlements and deals with them at
length in his History of South Carolina. He says that the district was
named Williamsburg by an Irishman named James, who came to the Colony
with his father in 1733. It is now called Kingstree, and the county in
which it is situated is still named Williamsburg.

Sims’ _Life of General Marion_ says: “the people of Williamsburg were
sprung generally from Irish parentage. They inherited in common with all
the descendants of the Irish in America a hearty detestation of the
English name and authority. This feeling rendered them excellent
patriots and daring soldiers wherever the British lion was the object of
hostility.”

Other local historians of the South also refer to the Irish settlements
in this territory, which continued with but intermittent intervals down
to the closing years of the 18th century. When we turn to the Census
schedules we find that the statements of the historians are amply
corroborated.

In the Williamsburg district, that “hotbed of rebellion,” we find
mention of such Irish families as Burke, Barrett, Biggen, Butler,
Barron, Bryan, Broaderick, Boland, Brady, Bradley, Cain, Cummins,
Connor, Cunningham, Collins, Conway, Callihan, Cronan, Cantey, Corbett,
Connell, Castlelaw, Creed, Conally, Cochran, Dunn, Dempsey, Dawson,
Dollard, Downing, Donoho, Donnally, Delaney, Dillin, Dailey, Dulon,
Dogharty, Earley, Flin, Foley, Fitzpatrick, Faning, Gorman, Galaspy,
Gibbons, Gallivant, Ganey, Gowen, Gavin, Gallaher, Gill, Garven, Hagan,
Hart, Harrington, Hayes, Hainey, Joice, Jordan, Kennedy, Keenan, Kelly,
Kelty, Keen, Keefe, Kerns, Kailey, Lynch, Leysath, Murphy, McCalvey,
McCartney, McGill, McFarlin, Manning, McCormic, McKenny, McDowell,
McKee, McGinney, McCauley, McBride, McMullan, Mulhollen, Mitchel,
McConnell, McClare, McIlveen, McGee, McFadden, Moore, McCottery,
McElroy, McMelly, McCleary, McDaniel, McDonald, McCarthy, McCall,
McSwain, McWilliams, Morrison, McGraw, McCausland, McCune, McElhaney,
McFail, McClendon, McGrath, McElduff, McAdams, McCoy, McCary, McCain,
Mahon, O’Brian, O’Neil, O’Cain, O’Bannon, Phelon, Powers, Quinn, Rogers,
Roach, Riley, Reidy, Rial, Ryan, Sullivan, Shealds, Swiney, Steele,
Shannon, Timmons, Toole, Ward and Walsh.

These are not all. Of the Murphys alone there were in the Williamsburg
district eleven families, nine Kellys and several distinct families
named O’Brian, O’Neil, O’Bannon and McCarty.

We have selected only one of each name, in order to show that the Irish
settlements spoken of by Lossing, Sims and Ramsay were drawn from the
South, East and West, as well as from the North of Ireland. American
historians are in the habit of saying that the immigrants from Ireland
were mainly the so-called “Scotch-Irish” element from the northern
counties. While it is true there were large settlements of Scotch Gaels
in the Carolinas, it is seen from the foregoing list that nearly every
county of Celtic Ireland was represented in the “hotbed of rebellion” of
South Carolina.

We see from the Census Returns that the collectors wrote down the names
phonetically in most cases, having paid little or no attention to
spelling, or the use of capital letters where they were needed. Some
peculiar transformations in names resulted from the carelessness or
ignorance of the enumerators. For instance, we find O’Neill spelled
“onailes” and “Ownaile”; O’Brien spelled “Obrient” and “Obriant”;
O’Farrell as “Opherl,” and Casey as “Caycey”; Donovan is down as
“Dunnevant” and “Dunnaphant”; Doherty as “Dehoitey” and “Dohoty”; Nolan
as “noling”; Sullivan as “Sellivent,” “Swillevaun” and “Sewlovan”;
Murphy as “Murff,” “Murph,” “Murpry” and “Murfree”; Gallagher as
“Gollerhorn”; Flynn as “Phlyn” and “Fling”; Kinsella as “Kincheloe”;
McLaughlin as “Maklafflin”; O’Hara as “Oharroe”; and O’Ryan as “Orion.”

To the prefix “Mac” the enumerators, in many cases, gave the sound of
“Mag.” Thus we have such name transformations as “Magnamee” and
“Magmanous.” We also find “Makmain” for McMahon and “Muckleroy” for
McElroy, and so on. Fitzgeralds are down as “Fitzjarrel” and “Jarrel”;
Fitzpatrick as “Fitchparterack” and “Pitch Patrick”; Reilly as “Royley”
and “Royalley”; Cassidy as “Casaty.” In some Southern city directories
we have come across the name of “Pitch,” and we wonder if some of these
are not descendants of the “Pitch Patricks” or Fitzpatricks!

It would be difficult to think of an old Irish name that is not
represented in the First Census, and which was not, at some time or
other, translated into something very different in appearance, and
sometimes only partially retaining the sound of the original name. In
the mutations of time, even these new names became still further
changed, so that many of the present-day descendants of the Irish
pioneers of the Carolinas cannot be recognized as at all of the old
Gaelic race.

The most numerous Irish name on the First Census of South Carolina is
Murphy, there having been 50 distinct families of that name, although
the 48 Kelly families gave them a close race. The Gill and McGill
families run nip and tuck with the O’Neills and the Nealls. There were
34 of the former to 33 of the latter. The O’Briens and O’Bryans ran the
gauntlet of many changes. The Census enumerators failed to appreciate
the significance of the regal prefix “O,” so they wrote down the name
Obrient, Obriant, Bryan and Briant. There were 53 of these in South
Carolina in 1790.

[Illustration:

  HON. ALEXANDER C. EUSTACE.

  Elmira, N. Y.

  Ex-President New York Civil Service Commission.

  A worthy Member from New York State.
]

The Celtic “Macs” make a great showing. There are upwards of one
thousand of such families in all, the “Macs” that are indigenous to
Ireland being more numerous than those that are supposed to be
exclusively native to Scotland. When we consider that, in 1790, the
total number of free white males of 16 years and upwards in South
Carolina was only 35,756, we can readily understand that one thousand
heads of families, with their wives and children, must have constituted
a large percentage of the total population. An examination of the Census
Returns indicates that the average number of children to each of the
Irish-named families was five, so that, on a conservative estimate, the
“Macs” alone must have contributed nearly 20 per cent to the population
of South Carolina!

We find 40 Ward families, 26 McClure families, 26 McDaniels, 23 McKees,
22 McCoys, 20 McDowells, 19 Cauleys and McCauleys, 19 Mahons and
McMahons, 18 McCalls, 17 McBrides, 17 McConnells, 16 McCarts and
McCartys, 12 McNeills, 11 McFaddens, and 10 McMullan families. There are
also numbers of McCormacks, McGees, McGowens, McGraws, McGuires,
McCrackens, McCanns, McCartneys, McCarys, McClearys, McClendons,
McCollums, McElroys, McKennys, McKelveys, McLaughlins, McManus, and many
other similar Irish family names.

There are 41 distinct families of Bradleys recorded, 29 Harts, 24
Sullivans, 28 Reynolds, 22 Canes and Kains, 22 Hayeses, 22 Hendricks, 21
Dunns, 23 Connors and O’Connors, 21 Carrolls, 20 Logans, 20 Reillys and
Royleys, 17 Dawsons, 14 Gilmores, 16 Manions and Mannings, 12 Hagans, 13
Walshes and Welches, 13 Higginses, and 11 Lynch and Linch families.

Among names that are common to Ireland and England, there are 113
families named Moore in the First Census of South Carolina, 80 Rogers
and Rodgers, 24 Morrows, 46 Collinses, 42 Butlers and 41 Fords. There
are 43 heads of families named Mitchell, 41 Montgomery, 26 McDonald, 26
Cunningham, 18 Gillespie, 17 Cochran and 22 Kennedy families, some of
whom, no doubt, were Scotch.

Such names as Brady, Burke, Casey, Connelly, Corbett, Cassidy, Callahan,
Cleary, Cummings, Curry, Daly, Doherty, Donnelly, Dempsey, Dowling,
Duggan, Doyle, Donovan, Ennis, Fitzgerald, Fogarty, Fitzpatrick, Flinn,
Garrett, Garvin, Gorman, Hogan, Jordan, Kearns, Lyons, Malone, Mulligan,
Madden, Morrison, Nolan, O’Bannon, Quinn, Regan, Roach, Ryan, Rutledge,
Shannon and Shiels, as well as others of ancient Irish origin, occur
quite frequently in the Census Returns, and in all parts of the state.
Indeed, we might say, with startling frequency, if they are examined by
that set of persons who are so fond of telling us that the American
people are of Anglo-Saxon origin!

Besides the old Irish clan names, it is seen that a very large number of
the early inhabitants of South Carolina bore names that have been common
in Ireland for centuries, although not all of Irish origin. There are
many Browns, Grays, Greens, Whites, Griffins, Grimeses, Rices, Savages,
Steeles, Glovers, Raineys, Rays, Flemings, Staffords, Shaws, Gastons,
Parnells, Mileses, Reeds, Fergusons, Coxs, Courtneys, Clarks, Carrs,
Kerrs, Allens, Pattersons, Berrys, Hails, Henrys, Morrises, Martins,
Lowrys, Hollands, Morrows, Jacksons, Laceys, Masseys and Leonards.

That some of these people were Irish seems beyond doubt, particularly
when we find such distinctive Irish Christian names as Darby, Malachi,
Patrick, Brian, Cormac, Connor and the like. And when we see O’Bryan
Smiths, Patrick Smiths, and Michael and Jeremiah Smiths, and other
similar name combinations, we can safely assume that in the majority of
cases they were of Irish origin or birth.




                 MEMORIAL TO JERSEY PRISON SHIP HEROES.


Since many prominent Irish Americans played an important part in the
success of the project for a fitting memorial to the heroes of the
British prison-ships of the Revolution, it is fit that reference be made
here to this noble tribute and the manner of its accomplishment.

The magnificent monument, costing in the neighborhood of $200,000, was
dedicated at Fort Greene Park, Borough of Brooklyn, New York, on
November 14, 1908, in the presence of one of the most distinguished and
representative gatherings which ever honored a like occasion in this
country. Addresses were made by President-elect Taft, by Governor Hughes
of New York, Secretary Luke E. Wright of the Navy, and by other
distinguished men, including Patrick F. McGowan, Chairman of the Board
of Aldermen of the City of New York, and Daniel F. Cohalan, Grand Sachem
of the Tammany Society of New York, an organization which did much
toward the success of the project and which contributed a substantial
amount.

The monument itself is one of the finest memorials in the world. It
stands in the center of a broad plaza, reached by three flights of 34
steps each, 100 feet in width. The height from the bottom of the plaza
to the top of the monument is nearly 200 feet. The top is accessible and
is reached by an electric elevator. The monument is constructed of white
granite from New York state, and the steps from granite quarried at
Stonington, Penobscot Bay, Maine. The architects were McKim, Mead and
White, and the work is said to have been the last of an extensive nature
by the late Stanford White.

The funds for the erection of this noteworthy tribute were obtained
through a government appropriation of half the amount, a state
appropriation of $25,000, an appropriation by the city of twice that
amount, and the rest through subscriptions from societies and historical
and patriotic organizations. The Tammany Society contributed the final
$1,000 to complete the required amount. This well-known organization was
the very first to secure a proper recognition of the courage and
patriotism of the prison ship martyrs more than one hundred years ago.

Among the heroes of the British prison-ships were many of Irish birth or
extraction, and it is therefore a subject for pride and satisfaction to
us as a race that their valor has at last been recognized, and
especially that an organization largely controlled by our people has
played so important a part in the accomplishment of such recognition.
Never in the history of the world have prisoners of war been made the
victims of such unexampled cruelties as those practised on the Americans
by the British in the Revolution, and it is a striking and
never-to-be-forgotten commentary on British methods toward their enemies
in war that the record of the prison-ships of the Revolution is deemed
by all the world a black mark on English history.




                  THE IRISH IN THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR.

  SHORT ADDRESS DELIVERED BY MASTER KARL EGAN, AT THE IOWA OPERA HOUSE,
    EMMETSBURG, IOWA, MARCH 17, 1909, DURING THE PRESENTATION OF THE
    IRISH DRAMA, “THE HERO OF WICKLOW,” UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE
    ANCIENT ORDER OF HIBERNIANS. SOME FACTS OF INTEREST TO THE PEOPLE OF
    IRISH BIRTH OR ANCESTRY.


_Ladies and Gentlemen_: On this important anniversary, which is
associated with so many achievements of interest to the people of our
race, it is fitting to enquire what part the Irish took in the
Revolutionary War. What did they do for the cause of human liberty at
this most critical time in the world’s history? All we ask is the truth.
For some reason our ordinary school histories have never given us any
credit for the prominent part our ancestors took in that great struggle.
What I shall say will bear the closest historical investigation.

It was Patrick Henry, who, by his soul-stirring speech, aroused the
members of the Virginia Assembly to a sense of patriotic duty. In 1776
he ran for governor on the Independence ticket and carried that
important colony for the Revolutionary cause. Still, he claimed that
John Rutledge of South Carolina was the greatest American orator of his
time. The latter was also elected president of South Carolina in 1776,
on the same ticket. John Rutledge and Patrick Henry were both sons of
Irishmen.

[Illustration:

  MR. WILLIAM J. FEELEY.

  Of Providence, R. I.

  One of the Committee in charge of the Sullivan Memorial and under
    whose guidance the Memorial was designed and executed.
]

During the Revolutionary War men of Irish birth or ancestry served as
governors in South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. They were among
the most ardent and fearless of the patriots of that history-making
period.

It was in John Duggan’s tavern in Boston that the Boston Tea Party was
planned. Several Irishmen were in the execution of the plan.

Eleven of the fifty-four members of the first Continental Congress were
Irishmen and sons of Irishmen. Thomas Johnson, who nominated George
Washington for commander-in-chief of the American forces, was a Celt of
the old school.

The war began April, 1775, but it was not officially declared until July
4, 1776. October 15, 1775, Congress sent a committee to interview
General Washington and to decide as to the advisability of continuing
the struggle. Of the five who participated in that most important
conference, Joseph Reed and Thomas Lynch were Irish. The other members
were Benjamin Franklin, Colonel Harrison and General Washington.

A rough draft of the Declaration of Independence was prepared by Thomas
Jefferson. It was re-written and carefully revised by Charles Thompson,
who was styled the Samuel Adams of Philadelphia, and the life of the
cause of liberty. When the Declaration was first proclaimed, it was
signed by John Hancock, as president of the Continental Congress, and by
Charles Thompson, as secretary. The other names were attached later.
Thompson was an Irishman and Hancock an Irish American. John Nixon first
publicly read it and Thos. Dunlap first printed it and published it to
the world. Both were Celtic to the backbone. Who periled most in signing
the immortal document? History answers, Charles Carroll of Carrollton,
another Irish American.

Who fought the hardest in the British House of Parliament for the rights
of American colonists? Edmond Bourk, an Irishman, and one of the
greatest statesmen the world has ever known.

In placing his most important officers, General Washington had Morgan
and Hand leading his rifles, Knox at the head of his artillery, John
Dunlap as his life guard, Edward Hand as his adjutant-general, Andrew
Lewis as his brigadier-general, Stephen Moylan and John Fitzgerald as
his aids, and Ephraim Blaine as his quartermaster. All were Irish by
birth or ancestry. When Washington was retreating through New Jersey, he
sent word to Thomas Johnson, a Maryland Celt, that he had not enough men
to fight the British and too few to run away with. Johnson raised a
force of 1,800 men and hurried to his assistance.

All students of American history have read of the gallant Richard
Montgomery, Mad Anthony Wayne, John Sullivan, Daniel Morgan, Stephen
Moylan, John Fitzgerald, Henry Knox, Wm. Irvine, Richard Butler, and
Generals Cochran, Campbell, McDowell, McCall, McClary, Jasper, Graham,
Hazelett, Colonel Pickens, and many others who were among the most
valiant and successful officers in that eventful conflict. All belonged
to our liberty-loving, heroic race. It has been officially ascertained
that out of 131 of the most prominent officers in the war for American
Independence, 20 were of English ancestry, 25 of French, 10 of German
and Dutch, 8 of Scotch, 2 of Polish, and 84 of Irish and Welch.
Commodores Barry, Perry, McDonough and Stewart, of the wars of 1776 and
1812, were scions of brave-hearted exiles from the Emerald Isle.

June 16, 1779, Joseph Galloway, speaker of the Pennsylvania House of
Representatives, who had to fly to England because of his sympathy with
the Tories, was examined as a witness by a committee of the British
House of Parliament, and he testified that the Irish constituted
one-half of the American army, the native Americans one-fourth and that
the other one-fourth were English and Scotch. This statement is
corroborated by Lecky, the English historian, Lord Mountjoy, General
Lee, Count Rochambeau, Col. J. C. Custis, the adopted son of General
Washington, and Rev. P. Allison, the Presbyterian chaplain of
Washington’s army. They are competent authorities. President Roosevelt
and James G. Blaine, in public addresses, have acknowledged, in
substance, the accuracy of this testimony. Hutchinson, the last royal
governor of Massachusetts, declared that his colony would never have
voted for independence, had it not been for the rebellious Irish.

There were 15 Irish in the battle of Lexington and 258 at Bunker Hill.
The monument at Bunker Hill is covered with Irish names. Captain Parker,
who commanded at Lexington, and who was killed, was Irish. Colonels
Barrett, Smith and Davis, who commanded at Concord, were also Irish.
When the American forces took possession of Boston, John Sullivan was
officer of the day and the countersign was “St. Patrick.”

After the treason of Benedict Arnold, General Washington ordered that
none but the Irish be placed on guard at West Point.

When the soldiers of Lafayette were half naked and starving, the Irish
people of Baltimore, then a place of only one hundred homes, gave them
food and clothing. In 1780, when the finances of the struggling republic
were at the lowest ebb, when it took from $30 to $50 in paper to make $1
in specie, after our soldiers had suffered at Valley Forge and
elsewhere, the business men of Philadelphia raised 315,000 lbs. sterling
and gave it to Congress. Twenty-seven Irishmen of that city contributed
103,500 pounds of that amount. They were members of the Friendly Sons of
St. Patrick, which gave 399 officers of the highest rank to the city,
state and nation during its early history. Washington became an honorary
member of that patriotic organization.

When our country so badly needed assistance, Bishop Carroll accompanied
Benjamin Franklin to France to seek the aid of that country. It was
secured. History gives Franklin the credit, but does not mention the
name of Bishop Carroll, who really made the mission a successful one.
Bishop Carroll also accompanied Franklin to the French Canadian
provinces for a similar purpose.

There were twelve Irish delegates to the convention that adopted the
Constitution, and there were five Irishmen in the first United States
Senate of twenty-two members.

Dr. Hugh Knox educated Alexander Hamilton, who was a poor boy. Doctor
Knox was a big-hearted Irishman. It was Matthew P. Lyon, an Irishman,
who was sold as a slave in Connecticut when a mere boy, who, on the
thirty-sixth ballot, as a congressman from Vermont, later in life, cast
the deciding vote that elected Thomas Jefferson president of the United
States over Aaron Burr.

Many who came with the French to assist the Americans were sons of
Irishmen, who had been driven to France with Patrick Sarsfield after the
treachery of the British at Limerick in 1691.

From 1691 to 1791, over 400,000 different Irishmen served in the French
army. When the Revolutionary War broke out, they petitioned the French
War Department to come to America to fight their national foes. There
were entire Irish regiments in the French army when Cornwallis
surrendered at Yorktown. A young Irishman, Robert Wilson, was appointed
to take charge of the surrendered flags and the news of the great
victory was sent in haste to President Thomas McKean, of the Continental
Congress at Philadelphia. McKean was one of the foremost Irish Americans
of his time.

Molly Pitcher and Nancy Hart, two Irish women who participated in the
Revolutionary War, deserve rank with the greatest heroines in history.

The Irish were among the leading educators, journalists, theologians,
historians, scientists, canal constructors, and railway builders of the
decades subsequent to the Revolutionary War. They were leaders in laying
substantially the broad foundation for our material, educational and
moral greatness. They gave us such statesmen as James Monroe, Andrew
Jackson, John C. Calhoun, James K. Polk, and many others, who were among
the very ablest national leaders in the early history of our republic.

I shall not refer to the part the Irish took in the War of 1812, the
Mexican War, the great Civil conflict, or the Spanish-American struggle
for supremacy. All I ask is for you to reflect on their great fight for
liberty from 1775 to 1783—that struggle that has been felt around the
world—and to tell the facts to your children, to your friends, and to
your fellow citizens, for they will not, for some unknown reason, find
it in ordinary histories. I can do no better than to quote, in closing,
the words of Colonel John Parke Custis, the adopted son of General
Washington:

“Then honored be the old and good services of the sons of Erin in the
war of independence. Let the shamrock be entwined with the laurels of
the Revolution; and truth and justice, guiding the pen of history,
inscribe on the tablets of American remembrance: ‘Eternal gratitude to
Irishmen.’”

[Illustration:

  HON. THOMAS HASSETT.

  New York.

  Elected a Life Member in 1908.
]




    HON. ELI THAYER, ONE OF THE EARLY MEMBERS OF THE AMERICAN IRISH
HISTORICAL SOCIETY. A MOST DISTINGUISHED AMERICAN, KNOWN THE WORLD OVER.
                  A FEW FACTS ABOUT HIS LIFE AND WORK.

                       BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL.


Hon. Eli Thayer was born in the town of Mendon, in the state of
Massachusetts, June 11, 1819, and deceased at Worcester, in that state,
April 15, 1899, aged eighty years.

He was elected a member of the American Irish Historical Society in
1897, shortly after its first meeting, and was an active and interested
member at the time of his death.

Mr. Thayer was a descendant in the seventh generation from Thomas Thayer
and seventh in descent from John Alden of _Mayflower_ fame, through
Ruth, daughter of Rev. Noah Alden of Bellingham, Mass., who married his
grandfather, Benjamin Thayer. John Alden was an Irishman and Thomas
Thayer was Irish on the side of one of his parents.

He was the eldest of eight children. He received his early education in
the district schools of Mendon, and at the Bellingham High School. Later
he attended the academy at Amherst and the manual training school at
Worcester, afterwards the Worcester Academy. He always ranked high in
his scholarship, and in 1835–’36 taught school in Douglass, and for the
four succeeding years assisted his father in a country store at
Millville. In May, 1840, he re-entered the manual labor school, in order
to fit for Brown University. Two years later he taught school at
Hopkinton, Rhode Island, and while there was elected a member of the Phi
Beta Kappa fraternity, an honor seldom conferred before the senior year.

In September, 1844, the superintendent of schools in Providence, Nathan
Bishop, induced him to take charge of the boys’ high school for the
remainder of the year for $600, a large salary for that period. This
school had proven for some time unmanageable in the hands of several
masters, but he reduced it to order and subjection. By accepting this
position, he lost a year at Brown University, but was able to graduate
in 1845, the second in his class. After his graduation, he immediately
came to Worcester and became a teacher at the Academy, and was later its
principal.

In 1845 he purchased of John Jaques four acres and ninety rods of land
in Worcester, on what was then called Goat Hill. In 1848 he began the
erection of the building called the Oread, which was completed in 1852.
It is built of the stone underlying the hill. At first only the north
tower was completed, and it was in this portion of the building that he
established the famous school for young women, which he conducted with
great success until he entered upon his later political work.

At the time that the school was opened, it was the only institute in the
country that promised a full college course for women. It was the
forerunner of Vassar, Smith and Wellesley. The name Oread means “the
abode of the mountain nymphs.” The south tower was completed in 1850,
and the connecting portion of the building a year or two later.

The towers are 40 feet in diameter and four stories high, while the
entire length of the building is 250 feet. It was constructed after
designs entirely Mr. Thayer’s own, without the aid of an architect, and
the beauty of the building and the charming location have been remarked
by strangers from all over the country.

He entered political life in 1852, when he was elected a member of the
school board. Later he was a member of the board of aldermen and served
during the years of 1853–’54 in the state legislature. It was during his
first year in the state House of Representatives that he became
conspicuous by the introduction of a bill to incorporate the Bank of
Mutual Redemption, which was hailed with delight by bankers and monied
men throughout the state, as it seemed to afford a means of release from
the autocratic rule of the Suffolk Bank of Boston.

This bill was passed in the course of years and the Bank of Mutual
Redemption loaned the money to the government when Andrew was governor
during the Civil War.

It was not, however, until 1854 that Mr. Thayer accomplished the great
act of his life, the one which enrolls his name among the benefactors of
mankind, in originating the plan which saved Kansas and other
territories to the Union and perhaps settled the destiny of the nation,
for if the southern leaders had secured the territories, it would have
given them the balance of power for many years to come and there would
have been no rebellion. The North would have acquiesced, as it always
had, in the decision of the congressional majority. In his original idea
of making Kansas free, he actually settled the destinies of the country.

It was at a meeting to protest against the repeal of the Missouri
compromise, held in the old city hall on the evening of March 11, 1854,
that Mr. Thayer announced his celebrated “plan of freedom.” In effect it
was simply to take possession by lawful means of the new territories
through organized immigration of free-state men sustained by a base of
supplies.

Mr. Thayer defined this plan as “business anti-slavery,” distinguished
from sentimental and political anti-slavery, both of which had been
tried for many years and found to be faulty, slavery in the meantime
constantly growing stronger. He clearly saw that whichever side gained
the majority of the settlers would control the situations of the new
section, in spite of all efforts to establish others among them, and to
the purpose of securing this majority for freedom he devoted all his
energies and all of his means until that end was accomplished.

As the first means toward fortifying himself for this undertaking he
immediately secured the passage of an act to incorporate the
Massachusetts Emigrant Aid Company and before the vote to repeal the
Missouri compromise was taken, hired a hall in Boston and began to speak
afternoon and evening in behalf of his undertaking.

The intense excitement and strong opposition which followed the first
announcement of the purpose to repeal the compromise in a great measure
subsided after that act was accomplished, and he found extreme
difficulty in the succeeding months in persuading a sufficient number of
men to join in his enterprise to form the first colony.

The Know-Nothing frenzy absorbed the public mind so fully that other
considerations were almost entirely excluded, and the Free Soil vote of
1854 dwindled to a few thousands, the Republican candidate for governor
himself deserting his party and voting with the native Americans. The
Know-Nothing organization had controlled the state for three years, and
the frenzy had seized the public mind to such an extent that no man who
aspired to public office had a chance of election unless he was
affiliated with that party.

Every member of Congress belonged to it, and it has been commonly said
that Henry Wilson and other prominent office-holders of that time were
elected upon that platform. The national Know-Nothing party did not
agitate the slavery question, but maintained that Congress ought not to
legislate on the question of slavery, which was regulated by the
statutes of the various states.

In 1856 the Republicans of the Massachusetts congressional district in
which Worcester is situated came to the front, but, feeling that they
stood no show of winning at the pending elections, made alliances with
the Know-Nothing party, whereby the offices were to be divided, and Col.
Alexander Dewitt made an agreement with Henry Chapin that he would not
run against him. At the last moment, however, Governor Gardiner sent
word that he must make the run against Chapin. It was at this crisis
that Charles White, a party manager, nominated Eli Thayer for Congress,
and took a carriage and went to the Oread to notify him of his
nomination.

Mr. Thayer was warmly greeted in the convention and, although it was but
five days before the election, he announced his determination to stump
the district and called for means of transportation to the various towns
and villages. During the five days he made on an average four speeches a
day. At the close of the campaign Dr. Joseph Sargent said to Mr. Thayer
that no man could do what he had done and live, but he replied that he
was prepared to undertake the same ordeal again in the same cause.

During this campaign he would speak at Clinton in the morning, at
Leominster at noon, at Ashburnham in the afternoon and at Fitchburg in
the evening, and it was in this way that he covered the entire Worcester
district in the short space of five days. The result of this bitter
contest was most gratifying to Mr. Thayer, who won by a vote of nearly
two to one. The election was in November, 1856, but Mr. Thayer did not
take his seat until the December of the following year.

At this time a new matter was interesting the southern members—the
retention of the state of Kansas in the Democratic column. The notable
southern propagandists, of which Quitman of Mississippi was the
representative, had, in order to amend the neutrality laws, put on foot
a scheme for the unification of Mexico, Cuba and Central America and the
formation of an immense slave empire. This was regarded by the northern
representatives with a great deal of apprehension, but much to the
surprise of everyone Mr. Thayer came out in favor of it.

[Illustration:

  MR. WILLIAM J. FARRELL.

  Of New York.

  A New Life Member of the Society.
]

He said to the southern leaders that he intended to colonize this new
empire with New England Yankees. His speeches on Central American
colonization, on the “Suicide of Slavery,” and on the “Admission of
Oregon” brought him great fame. Against the caucus decision of his own
party he secured the admission of Oregon into the Union, and in this
act, though in opposition to partisan dictation, he was sustained by
leading Republican organs throughout the country, although he received
some censure in his own district.

Soon after these speeches his political enemies in the district began to
organize against him, but his popularity was not to be overcome and he
was returned with a flattering endorsement. During his second term in
Congress he was instrumental in the admission of Oregon as a state to
statehood. The Republicans were of the opinion that the admission of
Oregon into the Union would mean heavier Democratic representation. Mr.
Thayer, however, argued that the best way to make Oregon a Republican
state would be to admit it into the Union. Succeeding events proved that
his view of the matter was correct, but at the time the Republicans in
the House opposed the admission.

Mr. Thayer, during the discussion of the bill, went to Alexander H.
Stephens, then chairman of the Committee on Territories of the House,
and told him that he should work for the passage of the bill and it was
to his everlasting credit that Oregon was admitted to the Union by a
majority of eleven votes, of which fourteen had been won over by the
untiring efforts of Mr. Thayer.

He was assailed at home for his stand in this matter, as his
constituents considered that he had voted for a measure which provided
for the admission of a state whose constitution excluded the negro from
all political rights. As a direct result of his stand in this matter,
the district failed to send him as a delegate to the national convention
in 1860, which placed in nomination Abraham Lincoln for the presidency.

Together with Horace Greeley, however, he was a member of the
convention, representing Oregon, the state for whose admission he had so
earnestly worked, and whose people appreciated his services in its
behalf. He worked with Greeley for the nomination of Lincoln in a
convention which was replete with startling incidents, not the least of
which was the motion of Joshua R. Giddings, aiming at the admission of a
clause in the platform providing that all men are free and equal.

On account of this outspoken stand in several important measures, it was
apparent to Mr. Thayer that he would fail of a renomination, and in the
spring of 1860 he announced himself as an independent Republican
candidate. As the campaign developed, a candidate in opposition to Mr.
Thayer was found in the person of Goldsmith F. Bailey of Fitchburg, but
no speaker in the state could be found who was willing to meet the
arguments on important questions advanced by Mr. Thayer. Such men as
Henry Wilson and Charles Sumner refused to meet him on the stump in
joint debate, and he was obliged to fight it out alone. The result was
that he was defeated by a very small majority. So great was his
popularity throughout the country during his second term that he was
prominently spoken of as a possible senator from Massachusetts.

Bailey, who defeated him for Congress, was in advanced stages of
consumption when he was nominated and was unable to take the stump
against Mr. Thayer. The voters of Worcester at last became so vigorous
in their demands to see the candidate that to quiet them a meeting was
arranged at which he was to be presented to them from the platform. When
Bailey arrived in the city he was such a haggard and ghastly spectacle
that it was feared by the party managers that if seen by the voters as
he was, it would make votes for Thayer.

It is maintained by those who seem to know that Bailey was taken into
George R. Spear’s drug store before the meeting. There his face was
painted and touched up with cosmetics until he looked like a thing of
life instead of a specter. He sat in Congress but one day, and then
returned to his home and died.

In 1856 Mr. Thayer originated a southern colonization scheme, which had
for its object the settling of Virginia, North Carolina, Kentucky and
the border states and driving the slaves toward the Gulf. He enlisted
the services of James Gordon Bennett of the _New York Herald_, and
William Cullen Bryant of the _New York Evening Post_ in his project. He
went South at the head of the colonists and founded the town of Ceredo
in Virginia, now a sizable place.

At the time he was charged by the Southerners with coming down into the
South to interfere with slavery, but he and his colonists disclaimed any
such purpose, saying that he neither intended to interfere nor have any
part in the slavery movement. He said further that he could support the
negro power and a steam engine for $10 a year, while it was costing the
southern slaveholders $150 a year, and that at the time he came into
Virginia land was worth but 50 cents to $1.50 an acre, but that his free
settlement had made it worth $50 an acre.

A man named Jenkins, afterwards a rebel officer, appealed to Gov. Henry
A. Wise to exterminate this colony of abolitionists, but the governor
said that they came into the state in a peaceful way and that anything
which tended to increase the wealth should be protected. Considerable
progress with the colonization scheme was made in other states,
especially in North Carolina, but the John Brown raid and the opening of
the rebellion brought the enterprise to an end. After the war Charles B.
Hoard, a member of Congress with Mr. Thayer, came into possession of the
property at Ceredo. The project caused Mr. Thayer a loss of $118,000.

Mr. Thayer was appointed a special and confidential agent of the
treasury department and served as such in 1861–’62. In 1862 he proposed
to Secretary Stanton a plan for the military colonization of Florida,
which was approved by President Lincoln, all of the members of the
president’s cabinet excepting Seward, and by nearly every Republican
member of Congress, as well as by Generals Hunter, Hooker and Garfield.
According to the plan, Mr. Thayer was to go as military governor and
General Garfield as commander of the forces.

This plan was under consideration for several months by the president’s
cabinet and was sustained by great meetings in New York City and
Brooklyn by such speakers as William Cullen Bryant and Cassius M. Clay
and others of equal note. Capitalists came forward with offers of
steamships, and other means and regiments were offered from several of
the states, but, like other notable plans which were never carried out,
this plan was prevented from being put into operation by exigencies of
the times.

He remained with the Republican party until the impeachment of President
Johnson. He was a Democratic candidate for Congress in this district in
1874, and also later, in the first instance nearly defeating Senator
George F. Hoar, reducing the Republican majority from 7,000 to 300.

He was interested in the solution of the polygamy question in Utah, and,
in connection with such men as Amos A. Lawrence, Edward Everett Hale and
other members of the old Emigrant Aid Society, was concerned with plans
for the elimination of the evil by the principle formerly put into force
in Kansas. In recent years he has written much of history, illustrating
his life work and the principles which have governed his actions in
political and philanthropic work. He kept fully abreast of the times,
with a keen interest in current events, and was always in sympathy with
genuine progress.

Mr. Thayer was engaged after leaving Congress by the Hanibal and St. Joe
Railroad Company, at a very large salary, to act as its land agent in
New York City. He was there from about 1864 until 1870. He was also an
expert in matters of invention, acting as a referee in such cases, for
which he received large sums. He studied law, but was never admitted to
the bar.

During the war time he originated a plan for the establishment of a
great port of entry on the peninsular between the York and the James
rivers in Virginia, and obtained a bond for a deed of the land. He
considered the natural advantages of that locality a rival to New York.
His plan, however, was divulged to certain heavy capitalists in New
York, and they by some means obtained possession of the property and
frustrated his scheme. He said he would have carried the thing through
had he obtained the land, but the capitalists undertook it and failed.

He had a very keen sense of humor and a sharp wit. It was most amusing
of itself to hear him tell humorous stories and preserve his grim
countenance from the suspicion of a smile.

Mr. Thayer took the initiative in developing the south end of Worcester
for manufacturing by erecting, more than fifty years ago, the building
formerly known as the Adriatic mills on Southgate Street. He was
influential in the erection of the junction shop formerly the property
of the late Col. James Estabrook, and for many years occupied by the
Knowles loom works on Jackson Street. This building, like the Oread
Institute, was constructed of the stone taken from Oread Hill. He laid
out and improved several streets and tracts of land in the vicinity of
the Oread and had under consideration at the time of his death the
opening up of a large area on the summit of Pakachoag Hill, at the rear
of Holy Cross College.

He was the last surviving member of the Emigrant Aid Society, director
of the Mutual Redemption Bank, member of the Worcester Society of
Antiquity and the American Irish Historical Society. Belonging to no
clubs, he was essentially a home man. Throughout the country he was
familiarly known as the “Father of Kansas.”

He was married in 1846 to Cardina M. Capron of Millville, Mass., and
seven children were born as a result of the union.




LATE PUBLICATIONS ON HISTORY OF INTEREST TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AMERICAN
                       IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

                       BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL.


PACIFIC BLOCKADE. By ALBERT E. HOGAN, LL. D.

This is the only treatise in English exclusively upon this subject, and
the author has discussed a minor topic of international law fully and
fairly. His views are briefly that pacific blockade (the right to
blockade the ports of another state in time of peace and without war
necessarily resulting) is too new a practice to have become entirely
regularized; that the state blockaded as well as the blockader, but not
the third powers affected, may decline to look upon a specific case of
pacific blockade as consistent with peace, and thus consider war to be a
fact; that notice, effectiveness, days of grace, etc., are to be
observed much as in ordinary blockade; that, unlike ordinary blockade,
it may be limited to a certain commodity or a certain traffic; that the
ships of third powers, attempting to run a pacific blockade, can only be
turned back or at most detained, never seized and confiscated as if war
existed; that this kind of coercion is better than war for all parties.

Doctor Hogan is an Irishman and a professor of law at the University of
Oxford in England, but his book and his views are being much discussed
and widely criticised by American historical authorities.

THE MYSTERY OF THE PINCKNEY DRAUGHT. By HON. CHARLES C. NOTT, formerly
Chief Justice of the United States Court of Claims.

This work is interesting throughout. Pinckney was not a great
constructive statesman, but in the work of the convention he rendered
valuable service in formulating many of the details embodied in the
Constitution. It was not so much a new instrument of government that
Pinckney framed in his original plan as it was a revision of the
Articles of Confederation. In the preparation of his plan, Pinckney drew
extensively upon the Articles of Confederation and the various state
constitutions, especially that of New York. On May 29th, 1787, Charles
Pinckney presented to the Federal Convention “the draft of a federal
government to be agreed upon between the free and independent states of
America”; that the records note simply its submission to the convention,
its reference on the same day to the Committee of the Whole House, and
later to the Committee of Detail; and that when John Quincy Adams in
1818 applied to Pinckney for a copy of the missing plan, he received in
reply a document so strikingly similar to the draft of a constitution
reported by the Committee of Detail on August 6th that it was evident
one document must have been taken from the other. The conclusion has
been almost universally unfavorable to Pinckney. Judge Nott in his work
takes the other side, and in an elaborate argument declares that the
original Pinckney plan is lost to the world because it was used as
“printer’s copy” by the Committee of Detail.

THE WORKS OF JAMES BUCHANAN, COMPRISING HIS SPEECHES, STATE PAPERS AND
PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE. Collected and edited by PROF. JOHN BASSETT
MOORE. Volumes V and VI, 1841–1844, 1844–1846.

President Buchanan was an Irishman, and Professor Moore has undertaken a
most meritorious work in bringing forth the speeches, state papers and
private correspondence of this great American citizen. The volume now
issued is the fifth, and covers part of the period that Mr. Buchanan was
in the United States Senate, where his continued membership of the
Committee on Foreign Relations and Committee on Manufactures brought him
into close contact with many of the most pressing questions of the time.
The great issues covered by these volumes were those of the northeastern
and northwestern boundaries and the annexation of Texas. In 1844
Buchanan was a presidential possibility, and his letters, though few in
number, show him willing to take, but unwilling to seek, this high
office. An excellent review of these volumes has recently been made by
Professor William MacDonald of Brown University, Providence, R. I., a
member of the Executive Committee of the American Historical
Association.

[Illustration:

  CHAUNCEY OLCOTT.

  Of New York City, the Famous Actor.

  A Life Member of the Society.
]

OLD TIMES ON THE UPPER MISSISSIPPI: THE RECOLLECTIONS OF A STEAMBOAT
PILOT FROM 1854 TO 1863. BY GEORGE BYRON MERRICK.

The author’s family were whalers from Nantucket. Mr. Merrick is a good
story-teller, and his book abounds with tales of traffic on the
Mississippi River from 1854 to 1863.

The author originally came from Nantucket, and began as a pantry boy on
the Mississippi, occupying every position in the steamboat and flat-boat
business for a great many years, and his tales of war-times are
intensely interesting. The book is not well named, however, because
steamboating was a large business for over thirty years before the
narrative begins. He tells interestingly of bringing to the front in
April, 1861, Sherman’s Flying Artillery, the most famous organization in
the old army, stationed at the time at Fort Ridgely, high up the
Minnesota River. The _Fanny Harris_, the largest boat which had ever
gone up the stream, received the battery on board, its commander then
being no other than John C. Pemberton of Pennsylvania, at first a loyal
Union officer, although afterwards the Confederate lieutenant-general at
Vicksburg. His lieutenant was Romeyn B. Ayres, than whom no Federal
officer of the Civil War was braver. The river was at flood, the perils
of navigation great, but the emergency was pressing. The _Fanny Harris_
dashed on at full speed, sometimes in the tortuous channel, sometimes
crashing through narrow barriers of land into inundated bottoms and even
woods, the battery-men meantime exclaiming that the risk to life in
battle was far less than among those pouring waters. Three hundred miles
down the current was accomplished in two days. The boat was almost
stripped of smokestacks, light upper work, and nearly all of her guards,
but the battery was delivered, guns and men, at Prairie du Chien. Its
style is simple, but very interesting, and the book is beautifully
illustrated and printed.

TEXTS OF THE PEACE CONFERENCES AT THE HAGUE, 1899 AND 1907, with English
translation and appendix of related documents. Edited by JAMES BROWN
SCOTT, technical delegate of the United States to the Second Peace
Conference at The Hague.

The volume is published by Ginn & Company of Boston and New York, of
which our Librarian and Archivist, Mr. Thomas B. Lawler, is a partner.
There is a twenty-five page introduction, giving an analysis and
discussion of the work of the conferences. Most of the documents have
been published elsewhere, and some of them many times, but it is well
worth while to have them brought together in this convenient form.
Ex-Secretary Root thinks the work of the Second Conference presents the
greatest advance ever made at any single time towards the reasonable and
peaceful regulation of international conduct, unless it be the advance
made at The Hague Conference of 1899. The volume is complete and treats
of the important factors in both conferences, and publishes the very
valuable documents.

THE BIBLIOGRAPHER’S MANUAL OF AMERICAN HISTORY, containing an account of
all state, territory, town and county histories, etc., compiled by
THOMAS LINDSLEY BRADFORD, M. D.

Three volumes have thus far been issued, and each volume shows
improvement over its predecessor. It is a valuable work and a most
excellent compilation of documents of great advantage to students of
American history, and furnishes a good means of observation to the
members of the American Irish Historical Society to take in at a glance
the history of so many places in this country.

THE AMERICAN EXECUTIVE AND EXECUTIVE METHODS. By JOHN H. FINLEY,
President of the College of the City of New York, and JOHN F. SANDERSON,
member of the Pennsylvania Bar.

The joint authors of this book have maintained the high standard of
scholarship that has characterized the series of which the volume under
review is the final number. There are fourteen chapters upon the
executive department of the American state, and the other eight deal
with the federal executive, to which is added an appendix upon the
presidential electoral system. Throughout the work reference is made to
the excellent achievements of many Pennsylvania Irishmen, but Mr.
Marshall S. Brown, who prints a review of the work, finds, among other
things, that the book reflects somewhat the defects inherent in a work
of dual authorship.

WINTHROP’S JOURNAL, 1630–1649. Edited by JAMES KENDALL HOSMER. Two
volumes.

This is one of the series of “Original Narratives of Early American
History.” The old title, “History of New England,” is given in this
edition only as a sub-title, and the volumes appear to be what they
are—a journal. Nevertheless, the work is interesting throughout, and
would be a valuable addition to the Society’s library.

THE PROVINCE OF NEW JERSEY, 1664–1738. By EDWIN P. TANNER, PH. D.,
instructor in history in Syracuse University.

This is a detailed history of the political affairs and institutions of
New Jersey during two generations of its provincial life. The peculiar
land system of the proprietors in each of the two Jerseys, elements of
the population, the personnel, legal position and activities of
executive, council and assembly respectively, and their conflicts, the
judicial system, financial affairs, militia system, etc., are carefully
treated.

THE WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON. Edited by GAILLARD HUNT.

This is much on the plan and fully as extensive as “The Works of James
Buchanan” heretofore referred to, and eight volumes at present have been
issued. The notes are excellent in respect to information and judgment,
but not much of the matter set out is new, the author merely contenting
himself by copying the writings of President Madison without making any
specious comment on the same.

A CALENDAR OF CONFEDERATE PAPERS, WITH A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SOME
CONFEDERATE PUBLICATIONS.

This is a preliminary report of the Southern Historical Manuscripts
Commission, and is one of the really monumental historical enterprises
in the South. The commission is actively collecting, arranging and
publishing various kinds of material relating to the Civil War, and to
thoroughly appreciate the truly marvelous changes one should have known
the conditions in the southern capitals a quarter of a century ago.
Those directing this enterprise are so energetic, intelligent and
ambitious that we believe the best fruits are yet to be gathered,
although there is no room to doubt the value of several large
collections already made. Mr. Douglas Southall Freeman is the director,
and this calendar, orderly throughout and supplemented by careful notes,
is very complimentary to him. Much historical data can be gathered for
the Society from the southern states, where the recognition of Irishmen
and their achievements was more free than in the New England states.

THE ADOPTION OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT. By HORACE EDGAR FLACK, PH. D.

Is a part of the Johns Hopkins University studies in historical and
political science. So much has been heretofore said about these studies
in the current magazines that we assume the members of the Society are
familiar with them.

COLLECTIONS AND RESEARCHES MADE BY THE MICHIGAN PIONEER AND HISTORICAL
SOCIETY.

The Society has been at work many years, and now publishes its
thirty-sixth volume. The usefulness of this work to members of our
Society in Michigan who desire to record the history and achievements of
Americans of Irish birth or descent cannot be overestimated.

COLLECTIONS OF THE STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF WISCONSIN.

This is the eighteenth volume of the publications, and is edited by
Doctor Thwaites, Secretary and Superintendent of the Society. The
Wisconsin History Commission, consisting of the governor of the state,
the professor of American history in the state university, the secretary
of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, the secretary of the
Library Commission, and a representative of the Grand Army of the
Republic, work with the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, and have
already gathered and arranged the material for a history of Wisconsin’s
part in the Civil War. A series of “Original Papers” has been
inaugurated, on the line of the papers presented at our last meeting in
Washington by Mr. Justice Dowling and Ex-Attorney-General Moloney, and
are very interesting.

LIVES OF THE GOVERNORS OF MINNESOTA.

Is Volume XIII of the publications of the Minnesota Historical Society
Collections, and is by James H. Baker, A. M., who has occupied several
political positions in his state and has been closely associated with
the men whose lives he has sketched. Mr. Baker is almost eighty years of
age, and he has personal acquaintance with the governors from Ramsey,
the first territorial governor in 1849, up to the present incumbent. Mr.
Baker’s sketches of Gorman, territorial governor from 1853 to 1857;
Sibley, first state governor from 1858 to 1860; Swift, third state
governor from 1863 to 1864; McGill, 1887 to 1889; and Clough, 1895 to
1899; men of Irish extraction, are thorough and entertaining.

[Illustration:

  HON. T. ST. JOHN GAFFNEY,

  Of New York.

  Consul-General to Dresden, Germany.

  Vice-President of the Society for Germany.
]

TRANSACTIONS OF THE KANSAS STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 1907–1908:

This is Volume X of the publications of the Society, and is edited by
the Secretary, George W. Martin. Fifty-six essays by nearly as many
writers are presented. Several of the productions are composed of
separate papers, such as the collections of biographical sketches of
members of early legislatures, etc. A wealth of original material, well
worth the notice of historians outside of the state of Kansas, is
revealed, and forty-eight maps, plans, portraits and landscapes
illustrate the text.

HISTORY OF THE CITY OF VINCENNES, 1702–1901:

An important contribution to the local history of Indiana, and a well
written and authentic account of the oldest town in that state. By Henry
S. Cauthorn.

HISTORY OF WORCESTER:

A well written, authentic history of the Massachusetts town in the War
of the Rebellion. By A. P. Marvin.

WISCONSIN VOLUNTEER INFANTRY HISTORY:

An account of the regiment from 1861 to 1865. By Edwin E. Bryant.

Professor Edward Channing of Harvard University has two volumes of a
History of the United States already issued of a series of eight
volumes. The title of Volume I is “The Planting of a Nation in the New
World, 1000 to 1660”; Volume II, “A Century of Colonial History, 1660 to
1760.” The titles to Volumes III and IV, not yet issued, are “The
American Revolution, 1760–1789,” and “Federalists and Republicans,
1789–1812,” while the titles to Volumes V to VIII have not as yet been
selected.

“Dr. John McLoughlin, the Victor of Oregon,” an authoritative
biographical sketch, with abundant documents, by Frederick V. Holman.

“A Documentary Source-Book of American History,” by Professor William
MacDonald of Brown University, author of “Select Charters,” “Select
Documents,” and “Select Statutes,” etc. The work is in one volume, and
includes all the most important documents contained in Professor
MacDonald’s large works, but in some cases shortened by immaterial
omissions.


                       GENERAL HISTORICAL ITEMS.

A very interesting document is the Report of the Committee on the
Documentary Historical Publications of the United States Government,
appointed by President Roosevelt in February, 1908, as an assistant
committee to the Committee on Department Methods. Hon. Lawrence O.
Murray, now Comptroller of the Currency at Washington, D. C., and at
that time in the Department of Commerce and Labor, is a member of this
committee, and the Society acknowledges with its thanks the receipt from
him of a copy.

On February 11th, the President sent it to Congress with a message, and
message and report have since been printed as Senate Document No. 714 of
the session concluded March 4th.

The report contains a review of the course hitherto pursued by the
government in the matter of historical publications; a general survey of
the publications hitherto made, and of the gaps still existing between
or among them; a body of recommendations for filling such gaps,
especially by the inception of a series of National State Papers; and
finally a series of suggestions for the organization of a permanent
Commission on National Historical Publications, with a bill which, it is
hoped, will be introduced in the sixty-first Congress.


The Fifth Annual Meeting of the Pacific Coast Branch of the American
Historical Association was held at the University of California November
21st last. Papers were read by Professor E. D. Adams of Stanford
University concerning the annexation of California, Mr. Don E. Smith and
Professor J. N. Bowman of the University of California, and by Mr. F. J.
Taggart. The proceedings lasted the entire day, sessions being held in
the morning and afternoon, followed by a banquet in the evening.


The publications of the American Association for International
Conciliation are being sent forward to the members of our Society, and
are readable and interesting documents by learned authorities upon the
subjects they present. At the suggestion of the Secretary of the
Association, the addresses of our members were sent him, and he has
written each that the publications of the Association will go forward to
them if they so request it. All that it is necessary to do to receive
them is to write the Secretary. His address is: “F. P. Keppel,
Secretary, Sub-Station 84, New York City.”


Hon. Thomas W. Bicknell, Providence, R. I., President of the Rhode
Island Citizens’ Historical Association and an applicant for membership
in our Society, has recently published in the Journal of American
History an interesting article entitled “First White Owners of Land in
America.” Mr. Bicknell is also the author of “Sowans,” a work treating
of the early history of Barrington and Warren in Rhode Island.


Among the contents of the last issue of the _American Historical
Magazine_ is “Heroes of the Battle of Point Pleasant,” by Delia A.
McCulloch.


In the January issue of the _Essex Institute Historical Collections_ is
an article on “Captain John Manley of Marblehead, a Man of Irish
Descent,” by Robert E. Peabody.


                            RECOMMENDATIONS.

It has been the custom of the Society since its organization to have one
annual meeting and two or more field days each year. The annual meeting
in each instance has been called for the early evening, and the business
affairs finished in a few minutes; then a short reception would take
place, followed by a dinner, on the completion of which some historical
papers would be read and addresses of interest made.

This proceeding is not calculated to sufficiently advance the interests
of the Society, or enable it to truly do the work for which it is
organized. Some historical associations have annual meetings at which
there is a morning and afternoon session, followed by a dinner in the
evening, while others have sessions lasting two or three days. It is
impossible to crowd into a single evening, part of which has been taken
up in partaking of a good dinner, any significant number of historical
papers, much less to have a discussion on them.

Valuable addresses have been made that have not been printed in the
Journal, and all that is left of them in the minds of the members is
hardly more than pleasant recollections of the speakers. All the leading
historical associations procure valuable papers from members, and, after
they are read, discussion upon the subject-matter is thrown open, the
good points gathered, and all reported in print later for the use of the
members.

This Society could profitably take a day and an evening for its annual
meeting. A morning session should be had, called to order at ten
o’clock. Two or three papers could be read and discussion had upon each,
followed by a recess from one to three p. m. Further papers and
discussion might then be entertained and the meeting adjourned, with all
the business completely transacted, in time for the dinner in the
evening, at which short and interesting speeches, good music and general
recreation after the day’s work would be in order.

These annual conventions should take place in different parts of the
country, and those interested in our work will be sure to be on hand. In
looking over some of our old records, it appears that requests have been
made by members for meetings to take place in Richmond, Va., Charleston,
S. C., and Detroit, Mich. In neither of these places has an annual
meeting or a field day of the Society taken place.


Members of the Society are earnestly requested to furnish the
Secretary-General with correct addresses. When a member removes or
changes his address, the Secretary-General should be notified
immediately, otherwise the publications and communications of the
Society may be lost or fall into unauthorized hands.


The necessity for prompt payment of dues ought to be manifest to every
member. The Society has no income except from the $5 a year contributed
by the annual members. No officer or member receives any salary, and the
finances are carefully and economically managed by the Executive
Council. We have no expense for rental for the Society’s headquarters,
and have no recent record of any officer of the Society accepting even
his traveling expenses in matters connected with the Society.
Nevertheless, the income is small, and our expenditures for printing the
annual volume, gathering historical matter, postage, stationery and
typewriting are large and do not leave the Society at the end of the
year with any substantial balance in the Treasurer-General’s hands.

[Illustration:

  COL. C. C. SANDERS (Deceased).

  Gainesville, Ga.

  Late Member of the Executive Council.
]


Donations of money or bequests by will or otherwise are earnestly and
respectfully solicited, and any member who will take the trouble to read
the constitution and note the purposes for which the Society is
incorporated can readily see the great and lasting service to our people
and American history in general that could be made, in addition to what
the Society is now doing, to make better known the Irish Chapter in
American History.


Some members well able to pay are in arrears from two to four years in
their dues, notwithstanding the fact that several tactful circulars and
repeated statements have been forwarded them by committees and officers
of the Society. The attention of members is called to section 8 of the
by-laws, which reads as follows:

“8. A member neglecting for two years to pay his annual fee shall be
notified of such omission by the Secretary-General. Still neglecting for
three months to pay the dues, such delinquent member shall be dropped as
no longer belonging to the Society.”


Many of our members belong to other historical associations, and, by
keeping in touch with their works, become of greater service to us. The
American Historical Association, the headquarters of which are at the
Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D. C., and the leading state
historical associations are cordially recommended to our members.


Members are earnestly requested to furnish the Secretary-General with
biographical sketches. It is necessary to have these for our archives,
and we hope that no member will allow his feeling of modesty to
interfere with keeping the records of the Society complete. These
sketches will not be published in the Journal if a member shall so
direct. Read over your biographical sketches in the membership roll, and
if they are not correct or should have additions, notify the
Secretary-General.


Current items of interest relating to the doings of Americans of Irish
extraction are solicited from every member by the Secretary-General. If
a good article is met with in a newspaper or magazine, it will be
thankfully received and filed in the archives if you will send it
forward. It is by keeping abreast with the current history that we
fulfil one of our greatest duties.


Donations of historical works, ancient or modern, or, in fact, books of
any description, are solicited for the Society’s library. Copies or
originals of old deeds, wills, bills of sale of slaves, curiosities in
American or Confederate money, plate, postage stamps, old prints,
pictures and the like are also solicited. When received, they will be
carefully indexed and filed, with the name of the donor attached. Every
member can readily find something of interest to send, and the
aggregation will form a nucleus for a good library and possibly a
museum.


Volumes I, II, IV, V and VI of the JOURNAL of the Society are out of
print. We have fifty copies of Volume III and ten copies of Volume VII
left. The Executive Council have ordered fifteen hundred copies of
Volume VIII, so that we may be sure every member will have a copy and
the Society have some to spare.

These volumes out of print have become very rare, and some of them are
held at high prices. If a sufficient demand appears from members who
desire to have a complete set of the Society’s publications, the subject
will be brought before the Executive Council for action, with the
possibility that some of the volumes may be ordered reprinted.




                              REILLY OF F


(Captain H. J. Reilly, Battery F, Fifth Artillery, “The Fighting Fifth,”
U. S. A., killed on the walls of Pekin, in the relief of the legations,
during the Boxer uprising.)

                         By JOHN JEROME ROONEY.

                               I.

       Know you the story, friends, know you the story?
         No hero is mine of the plume and the lance—
       Yet worthy to claim the green bay of glory
         In the lay of the singer of oldest romance.
       Then, when the song of the minstrel is gone,
       Forget not how Reilly—brave Reilly went on!

                               II.

       Out from the East, like a bolt from the sky,
         Thrilled the wild rumor of danger and dread—
       Out from the East flamed a prayer and a cry—
         A cry of the living, a cry of the dead—
       Straight to the heart of the nations it came,
       And the nations were shaken, as wind shakes a flame!

                               III.

       There, ‘mid the millions of Mongols, they stood—
         One grain in the desert, a drop in the sea—
       Mothers and children—brave men of our blood—
         What is their fate? Say, what shall it be?
       How can we name the thing that we fear?
       The heart, at the thought, is palsied and seer!

                               IV.

       Onward! the cry of the East and the West—
         Onward! spoke Chaffee, Columbia’s son:
       The nations were calling their bravest and best
         For the work of a giant before them undone.
       No time now to palter with quavering breath—
       ’Twas action and rescue—’twas rescue or death!

                               V.

       And the word came to Reilly—it spoke not again—
         Brave Reilly with all his bold lads of the guns—
       (Ah, if any came out from El Caney’s red rain,
         ’Twas by the grace of the Lord—not Hispania’s sons!)
       Oh, a stancher band never turned face to the foe
       As onward with Reilly, straight onward they go!

                               VI.

       They battered the walls of the forts of Taku,
         They lifted the door-knock and pounded it well—
       And the door?—the door was a breach looking thro’
         An entrance well dusted by shrapnel and shell.
       The fort, like a mist of the morning, was gone,
       And Reilly went on—bold Reilly went on!

                               VII.

       On by the railroad—still onward they press’d—
         Thro’ rampart—thro’ swamp, like a sword of the Lord—
       True sons of the East, true sons of the West,
         A knight of King Arthur confronting a horde!
       And Battery F, unafraid of the brunt,
       Kept its pace, and its guns, right up to the front!

                               VIII.

       See! See! the walls of the Capital rise
         Away to the right, a vision of power—
       They are flashing a signal—our loved one’s replies—
         They are lost had the guns been delayed but an hour.
       Like a cyclone they open and thunder their doom
       And the flame from their mouths is the light in our gloom!

                               IX.

       Battery F opened up like a hell,
         With a roar like a lion—a serpent’s fierce hiss—
       Solid shot under! above with the shell!
         Gates were not made to be pounded like this.
       Trembles the portal—with a shot it is gone—
       And Reilly went on—bold Reilly went on!

                               X.

       From the compound a cheer, like a voice from the grave,
         Rolls upward and out and upward again;
       The Lord—He is gracious and mighty to save,
         And he works by the hands of His valiant of men!
       Still, was work to be done—stern work to be done—
       Ere the wall’d town within was level’d and won.

                               XI.

       Then “Forward,” called Reilly—and forward they swept
         To the walls where the foe had rallied his horde.
       Like a boy, to a ladder the Captain has leapt,
         You can see, far in front, the gleam of his sword.
       Then up thro’ the smoke, like a wraith, he has gone—
       And Reilly went on—bold Reilly went on!

                               XII.

       O sweet harp of Erin, sound gently thy lay!
         O star of Colombia, be swift with thy light!
       He fell—and the summit of Glory that day
         Was the rampart he scaled alone in the fight.
       In a beam of the splendor a moment he shone—
       And Reilly went on—brave Reilly went on!

[Illustration:

  EDWARD CARROLL.

  Leavenworth, Kansas.

  A Member of the Society.
]


  The above is a true story, every word of it. The United States
  Government brought Captain Reilly’s body home and buried it in the
  Arlington Cemetery, near Washington, and erected a splendid shaft to
  mark this brave soldier’s memory. Captain Reilly, as his name
  indicates, was of Irish stock.—J. J. R.




CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS SANDERS, ONE OF THE FOUNDERS OF THE AMERICAN IRISH
 HISTORICAL SOCIETY, AND MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL. A WORTHY AND
                        DISTINGUISHED ASSOCIATE.

 By A. W. VAN HOOSE, PRESIDENT BRENAU COLLEGE-CONSERVATORY, GAINESVILLE,
                                   GA.


On August 3d, 1908, there died at his home in Gainesville, Ga., one of
the most remarkable men that it has been my good fortune to meet.

Descended on his father’s side from Rev. Moses Sanders, a Baptist
preacher who emigrated from England to this country in the year 1765,
and on his mother’s side from Thomas Smythe, a man distinguished for his
great learning and for the many sweet poems that came from his pen, an
Irishman, who with a party of friends, left Dublin, Ireland, in 1798 and
made his home in Charleston, S. C., Colonel Sanders combined in his
nature, disposition and temperament, the very best characteristics of
the English and Irish, whose descendant he was.

For twenty years I knew him intimately, and I have no hesitation in
making the statement that he was one of the most remarkable men of the
generation in which he lived.

If I were asked in what respects he was remarkable, I would answer,
First in his broad patriotism and deep love of country. Although he was
little more than a boy when Georgia, in which state his parents had
settled, seceded and issued her call for her sons to take up arms in
defense of principles which they knew to be right, young Sanders, who
had received a splendid military training at the Georgia Military
Academy, was one of the first to respond to his country’s call, and
during all those years of carnage and bloodshed, he gave his best
strength, mental and physical, to the cause of the Confederacy. For
distinguished bravery and great ability in military matters, he was soon
made Colonel of the 24th Regiment of Georgia Volunteers and in the
battles of Williamsburg, Seven Pines, Cold Harbor, Malvern Hill,
Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Harper’s Ferry, The Wilderness,
Spottsylvania Court House and other great struggles, the Confederacy had
no braver soldier or more efficient officer than he. At Spottsylvania,
he was severely wounded and his command suffered greatly; he was
captured at Sailor’s Creek, May 6, ’65, and until July 25th, suffered
the awful horrors of the Federal Prison at Johnston’s Island. During the
war, he was offered the rank of Brigadier-General, but with that modesty
which characterized his whole life, he declined the honor.

While he loved the cause of the Confederacy with all the ardor of his
great soul, when Lee surrendered at Appomatox, Colonel Sanders ceased
fighting and applied himself diligently to building up the waste places
of his beloved country and to making a competency for himself and
family, and the great success which attended his efforts in both
instances is the second reason that I would assign for calling him a
remarkable man. In 1871, he married Miss Fannie Amelia Scarborough, who
until the day of his death, was a blessing and an inspiration to him.
Together they came to Gainesville, a little mountain village, in 1871,
immediately after their marriage, to build their home and fortune. By
industry, economy and great business ability, Colonel Sanders succeeded
in amassing a splendid estate, and at the same time was always first in
his contributions to any public enterprise or private charity. No one
will ever know how many cases of distress he relieved; for he obeyed the
Scriptural injunction and never allowed his left hand to know what his
right hand was doing. The writer of this sketch, was often at the State
Bank, of which Colonel Sanders was President for many years, and has
seen numbers of the old veterans, unfortunate men of all classes and
even the negroes of the city, ask for aid and never once were they
refused. On the day that he died, I heard numbers of men, with tears in
their eyes, say, “I have lost the best friend that I ever knew”; his
funeral services were attended by every class of people in our city and
country, and after his more intimate friends came and with streaming
eyes looked into the face of him who had befriended them for so long.
Such a funeral has been accorded but few men in our country. Colonel
Sanders was also remarkable for his literary and scientific attainments.
Although he professed to be only a business man, he was a great student
of men and affairs; he was a great reader of history and the record of
all nations, from the earliest period to the present day, was an open
book to him; he had traveled extensively and the literature and
civilization of Europe and Egypt and the Holy Land, were so fully and
accurately impressed upon him, that he could entertain his friends by
hours in recounting his experience as a traveler. But best of all,
Colonel Sanders was remarkable in his childlike devotion to and faith in
Jesus Christ, the Man of Galilee, in whose footsteps he had followed for
many years. He was one of the very few men of my acquaintance who,
though devoted to his business, always kept a Bible in the President’s
office of the State Bank, and oftentimes have I called to see him only
to find him immersed in the beauties of the great prophecies of Isaiah,
or reading the Songs of David, the sweet singer of Israel, or studying
the life and character of Him who came into the world to save men from
their sins. For years, he was a pillar in the Baptist Church of this
city; he always taught a class in Sunday School and his presence there
was always an inspiration to the Superintendent. During an intimate
acquaintance for more than twenty years, I do not think that I ever
heard him speak an unkind word of any one and when the summons came, his
house was in order and he was ready to meet his Master and give an
account of the deeds done in the body. I was with him very often during
his last illness and his faith in the promises of Him whom he had served
so long and so faithfully, was beautiful and sublime. Not a word of
business care or anxiety was heard around the sick bed of Colonel
Sanders; he seemed in constant communion with God, and though he had
large financial interests, in these last days he made no mention of
them.

To the writer of this sketch, his death was a great personal loss; when
I began the work of building a school for girls in Gainesville nearly
twenty-five years ago, Colonel Sanders was my friend and supporter;
during all the years of struggle and trial in the early days of the
school he gave me the benefit of his advice and counsel and never
refused any financial assistance when called upon to extend it. It was
his confidence in a struggling young man that often nerved my arm and
heart to continue the work which I had undertaken. And when the end had
come, and I looked upon that face, calm and sweet, having the appearance
of one who had only fallen asleep, I thought of the words of the great
poet and said to myself:

          “His life was gentle,
          And the elements so mixed in him,
          That Nature might stand up and say to all the world,
          Here was a _man_.”




                          PATRICK J. McTIGHE.


A worthy member of the American Irish Historical Society was deceased at
Binghamton, N. Y., August 4, 1908.

Patrick J. McTighe was born in Kilrush, County Clare, Ireland, in 1840,
and received his education in a university at Dublin. His parents
arrived in this country about fifty-five years ago, settled in
Binghamton and were among the few pioneer Irish Catholic residents of
that section. About forty-five years ago Mr. McTighe followed his
parents to Binghamton and secured a position as teacher in one of the
public schools. After teaching about two years he entered the employ of
the wholesale grocery firm of Jackson, Denton & Marks. This firm changed
several times and many different partners were admitted and retired
while Mr. McTighe was connected with the business.

Following are a few of the firm names which the original house passed
through before Mr. McTighe acquired the present business: Jackson &
Marks, Marks & Bean, Bean & Company, McTighe, Truesdell & Davidge. Mr.
McTighe was a silent partner in the firm of Bean & Company, and was an
active partner in the firm which he later bought out and reorganized
under the present name of the McTighe Grocery Company, with offices and
warehouses at No. 69 Fayette Street.

[Illustration:

  MR. JOHN G. HARDY.

  Of the William J. Feeley Company.

  Providence, R. I.

  The Talented Sculptor of the Sullivan Memorial.
]

Mr. McTighe had been prominent in political, religious and social
circles in this city for many years. In addition to his membership in
the American Irish Historical Society, he was a member of the Catholic
Club of New York, the Knights of Columbus, and many other orders and
societies. He was president of the local branch of the old Land League
during the season of its most effective work; a former president of the
Binghamton Board of Trade for several years, and was a police
commissioner of that city. During the presidential election of 1892 Mr.
McTighe served as a presidential elector when Grover Cleveland was made
president.

He had been a devout communicant and a member of the board of trustees
of St. Patrick’s Church since the time when this church was the only
Roman Catholic edifice in Binghamton. Aside from being a moving spirit
in the church proper he took a lively interest in the many branch
societies of St. Patrick’s.

He is survived by his widow, whose maiden name was Miss Mary A.
McDonald; two sisters, Mrs. Anne Wall and Mrs. Mary Murphy; a nephew and
a niece, John and Florence McDonald, whom he brought up from childhood
as his own children; two nephews, Patrick and John McTighe; and two
nieces, Frances McTighe and Elizabeth Wall.

Mr. McTighe always kept green his memories of the “Ould Sod,” and was in
touch with all movements to better the condition of the Irish people.
His recent efforts to aid the Kerry fishermen were especially
praiseworthy.

Mr. McTighe was the leader in the movement to raise the fund raised in
Binghamton to aid the Quilty fishermen, who rescued the sailors of the
_Leo XIII_ last autumn. The editor of _The Binghamton Press_ was made
treasurer of the fund, in recognition of the sermonette editorial, based
upon the thrilling story of the wreck, while Mr. McTighe took active
charge of raising the money and sending it to Ireland.

In business Mr. McTighe was a hard worker and a keen, methodical
business man. He had the reputation everywhere of having a very high
regard for his word. In his long life and connection with the grocery
business he was associated with many of the pioneers of Binghamton
business life and many of the old aristocrats of the business circle.

He was a well educated and well read man, being a scholar in Latin,
Spanish, Celtic and French. He was always improving his mind, and, it is
said, started in to learn Greek when past the age of sixty, finally
mastering it so that he read it with pleasure.

The decease of this estimable man has left vacant a place hard to fill,
and the entire city of Binghamton was filled with sorrow at his sudden
death.




 [_These blanks may be separated and used for membership application_]


 _To the EXECUTIVE COUNCIL of the AMERICAN-IRISH
           HISTORICAL SOCIETY_:

 _Application for life/annual membership is hereby made by the
    undersigned_

      _Name_

                                        (_Write legibly_)

      _Address_

      _Occupation_

 _Recommended by_


 _Application for membership must be accompanied by cheque for $50.00 for
  life membership or $5.00 for annual membership, payable to Michael F.
                       Dooley, Treasurer-General._




       MEMBERSHIP ROLL OF THE AMERICAN IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

             [For officers of the Society see pages 19–21.]


  ADAMS, HON. SAMUEL, President and Treasurer of the O’Neill-Adams
  Company, Twentieth to Twenty-second Street, Sixth Avenue, New York
  City; director, Garfield National Bank; member of the New York Chamber
  of Commerce; trustee, Excelsior Savings Bank; an ex-State senator of
  Colorado.

  ADAMS, T. ALBEUS, President, Manhattan Refrigerating Company, 525 West
  Street, New York City; President, Adams & Company, New York; President
  Union Terminal Cold Storage Company, Jersey City, N. J.

  ASPELL, JOHN, M. D., 139 West Seventy-seventh Street, New York City; a
  member of the Academy of Medicine; of the County Medical Association,
  and of the Celtic Medical Society; recently President of the latter;
  visiting surgeon to St. Vincent’s Hospital.

  BANNIN, MICHAEL E., of Converse, Stanton & Company, dry goods
  commission merchants, 83 and 85 Worth Street, New York City; member of
  the Merchants Association, New York; director, Emigrant Industrial
  Savings Bank; member of the Merchants and Catholic clubs, New York, of
  the Montauk Club, Brooklyn, and of the Brooklyn Arts and Science
  Institute; director, the Columbian National Life Insurance Company;
  director, American Investment Securities Company; director Citizen
  Trust Company, Brooklyn.

  BANNON, HENRY G., 107 East Fifty-fifth Street, New York City;
  President of the Irish National Club; Secretary, Celtic-American
  Publishing Company.

  BARRETT, MICHAEL F., of Barrett Bros., wholesale and retail dealers in
  teas and coffees, 308 Spring Street and 574 Hudson Street, New York
  City.

  BARRY, HON. PATRICK T., Vice-President-General and life member of the
  Society, 87–97 South Jefferson Street, Chicago, Ill.; advertising
  manager, Chicago Newspaper Union; director, First National Bank of
  Englewood, Ill.; director, The _Chicago Citizen_ Company; has been a
  member of the State Legislature of Illinois; prominently identified
  with educational interests.

  BARRY, THOMAS H., Major-General in the United States Army,
  Headquarters Army of Cuban Pacification, Marianao, Havana, Cuba.

  BARRY, WILLIAM F., 249 Magnolia Avenue, Elizabeth, N. J.,
  superintendent of the Money Order Department of the Elizabeth
  postoffice.

  BARRY, WILLIAM J., attorney at law, Barristers’ Hall, Boston, Mass.

  BAXTER, REV. JAMES J., D. D., 9 Whitmore Street, Boston, Mass.

  BAYNE, WILLIAM, 53 Third Avenue, New York City, for the past
  twenty-six years leader of the famous Sixty-Ninth Regiment Band of New
  York City. Professor Bayne has the best collection of Irish music of
  any band master in the United States.

  BLAKE, MICHAEL, of John Leonard & Company, iron and steel, 149
  Broadway, New York City.

  BODFISH, REV. JOSHUA P. L., 60 Robinwood Avenue, Jamaica Plain, Mass.;
  formerly chancellor of the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Boston; a
  director of the Bunker Hill Monument Association.

  BOURLET, JOHN W., of the Rumford Printing Company, Concord, N. H.,
  printers to the Society.

  BOYLE, JOHN J., 251 West Fifty-first Street, New York City, a talented
  sculptor.

  BOYLE, HON. PATRICK J., Newport, R. I.; has been mayor of that city
  eleven terms, and is mayor at present.

  BRADY, REV. CYRUS TOWNSEND, LL. D., rector of St. George’s Church;
  residence, Haddon Hall, Kansas City, Mo.; member of the Society of
  Colonial Wars, of the Sons of the Revolution, of the Military Order of
  Foreign Wars, and of other patriotic organizations; chaplain of the
  First Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain; formerly
  Protestant Episcopal archdeacon of Pennsylvania; author of “For Love
  of Country,” “For the Freedom of the Sea,” “Stephen Decatur,”
  “Commodore Paul Jones,” “Border Fights and Fighters,” “The True Andrew
  Jackson,” and other works. Member of the Executive Council of the
  Society.

  BRADY, DANIEL M., President Brady Brass Company of Jersey City, N. J.,
  95 Liberty Street, New York City, was born in New York in 1854. His
  parents were American born, while his grandparents on both sides were
  natives of Ireland.

  BRADY, JAMES B., 170 Broadway, New York City.

  BRADY, OWEN J., with The H. B. Claflin Company, 224 Church Street, New
  York City.

  BRANAGAN, WILLIAM I., Emmetsburg, Ia., editor of the _Emmetsburg
  Democrat_ and director of the Emmetsburg National Bank.

  BRANDON, EDWARD J., attorney at law, city clerk, Cambridge, Mass.

  BRANN, REV. HENRY A., D. D., LL. D., 141 East Forty-third Street, New
  York City (Life member of the Society).

  BREEN, HENRY J., attorney at law, 243 West Ninety-ninth Street, New
  York City.

  BREEN, HON. MATTHEW P., a city magistrate, 243 West Ninety-ninth
  Street, New York City.

  BRENNAN, HON. JAMES F., attorney at law, Peterborough, N. H.; a
  trustee of the New Hampshire State Library. Historiographer of the
  Society and Vice-President for New Hampshire.

  BRENNAN, JAMES F., contractor, 203 Maple Street, New Haven, Conn.

  BRENNAN, P. J., 788 West End Avenue, New York City.

  BRETT, FRANK P., town clerk and attorney, Waterbury, Conn.; member of
  the Connecticut Legislature. He is town clerk of Waterbury, in which
  city he was born December 13, 1869. He was educated in the public
  schools, graduating from the high school in 1888 and from the Yale Law
  School in 1892. He was a member of the Town Board of School Visitors
  from 1892 to 1897; was elected to the Legislature in 1899; was town
  clerk from 1900 to 1904 and from 1906 to the present time. Mr. Brett
  is a son of Patrick Brett, formerly Secretary of the Waterbury Buckle
  Company. Mrs. Brett before marriage was Miss Elizabeth Slater, and
  taught in the first Catholic school in Waterbury, being one of the
  five Slater sisters, all of whom taught there. She also taught in
  Worcester, Mass., and in Newark, N. J., with Father McQuade, the
  present bishop of Rochester, N. Y. Address, 3 East Main Street.

  BRIERLY, FRANK, 268 West One Hundred Thirty-first Street, New York
  City.

  BRITT, PHILIP J., attorney at law, 27 William Street, New York City.

  BRODERICK, WILLIAM J., 52 Morton Street, New York City.

  BROSNAHAN, REV. TIMOTHY, rector of St. Mary’s Church, Waltham, Mass.

  BROSNAN, REV. JOHN, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.

  BRYAN, HON. J. P. KENNEDY, attorney at law, 11 Broad Street,
  Charleston, S. C.

  BUCKLEY, JOHN J., attorney at law, 99 Nassau Street, New York City.

  BURKE, JOHN, 60 West Fifty-first Street, New York City.

  BURKE, ROBERT E., attorney at law, recently city solicitor,
  Newburyport, Mass.

  BURR, WILLIAM P., office of the Corporation Counsel, New York City.

  BUTLER, FRANCIS X., attorney at law, member of the law firm of Knabe &
  Butler, 280 Broadway, New York City.

  BUTLER, M. J., real estate and insurance, Morris Avenue, corner of One
  Hundred Forty-fourth Street, New York City.

  BUTLER, T. VINCENT, 120 Central Park South, New York City; with R. G.
  Dun & Company.

  BUTTIMER, THOMAS H., attorney at law, Hingham and Boston, Mass.

  BYRNE, DR. C. E. of the C. E. Byrne Piano Company, 229 East
  Forty-first Street, New York City.

  BYRNE, JOSEPH M., insurance, 800 Broad Street, Newark, N. J.

  BYRNE, THOMAS F., 105 East Seventy-eighth Street, New York City.

  BYRNE, RT. REV. MGR. WILLIAM, D. D., V. G., rector of St. Cecelia’s
  Church, St. Cecelia Street, Boston, Mass.

  BYRNE, WILLIAM MICHAEL, attorney at law, 220 Broadway, New York City.

  BYRNS, WILLIAM FRANCIS, M. D., 1509 U Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  CAHILL, JOHN H., attorney at law, 15 Dey Street, New York City;
  prominently identified with telephone interests; Vice-President,
  Secretary, attorney and director of the New York Telephone Company;
  director of the Empire City Subway Company; also a director of the
  American District Telephone Company; the Chesapeake and Potomac
  Telephone Company; the Holmes Protective Company; the New England
  Telephone and Telegraph Company; the Delaware Telegraph and Telephone
  Company; Northwestern Telephone and Telegraph Company, and the
  Southwestern Telephone and Telegraph Company.

  CALNIN, JAMES, 101–107 Lakeview Avenue, Lowell, Mass.

  CANNON, THOMAS H., of the law firm Cannon & Poage, Stock Exchange
  Building, Chicago, Ill.

  CAREY, PETER J., 536 West Twenty-third Street, New York City.

  CARMODY, T. F., attorney at law, Burpee & Carmody, Waterbury, Conn.

  CARNEY, MICHAEL, of M. Carney & Company, Lawrence, Mass.

  CARROLL, EDWARD, Cashier of Leavenworth National Bank, Leavenworth,
  Kansas.

  CARROLL, EDWARD R., 333 East Fifty-first Street, New York City;
  clerk’s office, Court of General Sessions of the Peace, City and
  County of New York.

  CARROLL, JOHN L., Secretary, American Oil & Supply Company, 23
  Division Place, Newark, N. J.

  CARROLL, THOMAS F., M. D., 219 Central Street, Lowell, Mass.

  CARTER, PATRICK, real estate, mortgages and insurance, 32 Westminster
  Street, Providence, R. I. Member of the Executive Council of the
  Society.

  CARTER, HON. THOMAS H., United States Senator from Montana,
  Washington, D. C.

  CARTY, JOHN J., Short Hills, N. J.

  CASEY, MICHAEL, of Casey & Bacon, wholesale grocers, Pittsfield, Mass.

  CASSIDY, JOHN J., 509 West Street, Wilmington, Del. Vice-President of
  the Society for Delaware.

  CASSIDY, GEN. PATRICK, M. D., Norwich, Conn.; was surgeon-general on
  the staff of Gov. Luzon B. Morris of Connecticut, ranking as
  brigadier-general.

  CAVANAUGH, F. J., 31 Union Square, New York City; merchant.

  CHITTICK, REV. JAMES J., 5 Oak Street, Hyde Park, Mass.

  CLANCY, LAURENCE, dry goods merchant, West Bridge Street, Oswego, N.
  Y.; President of L. Clancy, Sons & Company; trustee Oswego County
  Savings Bank; director, electric street railway; member, Normal school
  board; has repeatedly declined a nomination for mayor of Oswego.

  CLARE, WILLIAM F., attorney at law, 71 Nassau Street, New York City.

  CLARKE, JAMES, of James Clarke & Company, booksellers and publishers,
  29 West Thirty-second Street, New York City.

  CLARKE, JOSEPH I. C., with Standard Oil Company, 26 Broadway, New York
  City; is Vice-President of the Society for New York.

  CLARY, CHARLES H., Hallowell, Me.; a descendant of John Clary, “of
  Newcastle, Province of New Hampshire,” who married Jane Mahoney of
  Georgetown, Me., 1750. Four children were born to them before 1760;
  was one of the founders of the Clary Reunion Family which meets
  annually.

  COCKRAN, HON. W. BOURKE, 31 Nassau Street, New York City; ex-member of
  Congress. (Life member of the Society.)

  COFFEY, REV. MICHAEL J., East Cambridge, Mass.

  COGHLAN, REV. GERALD P., 2141 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  COHALAN, DANIEL F., attorney at law, 2 Rector Street, New York City.

  COLEMAN, CAPT. JOHN, capitalist, 1100 Fourth Avenue, Louisville, Ky.

  COLLIER, PETER FENELON, publisher, 416 West Thirteenth Street, New
  York City.

  COLLINS, JAMES M., 6 Sexton Avenue, Concord, N. H.

  COLLINS, HON. JOHN S., Gilsum, N. H.; manufacturer of woolens; an
  ex-State senator of New Hampshire.

  COLLINS, BRIG.-GEN. D. F., 637 Pearl Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  COLTON, RT. REV. CHARLES HENRY, D. D., Roman Catholic Bishop of
  Buffalo, 1025 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, N. Y.

  COLTON, FRANK S., 227 Riverside Drive, New York City.

  CONATY, BERNARD, 30 Cypress Street, Providence, R. I.

  CONATY, REV. B. S., 340 Cambridge Street, Worcester, Mass.

  CONATY, RT. REV. THOMAS J., D. D., Los Angeles, Cal., Bishop of the
  Roman Catholic diocese of Monterey and Los Angeles.

  CONDON, E. O’MEAGHER, Nashville, Tenn.

  CONEY, PATRICK H., attorney at law, 316 Kansas Avenue, Topeka, Kan. He
  entered the Union army in 1863, at the age of 15 years, enlisting in
  the One Hundred and Eleventh New York Infantry. He was detailed as
  dispatch bearer on General McDougall’s staff, promoted as an orderly
  dispatch bearer on Gen. Nelson A. Miles’ staff, served in this
  capacity to Appomatox and Lee’s surrender, and was transferred June 5,
  1865, to Company H, Fourth New York Heavy Artillery. He served until
  October 5, 1865, when he was honorably discharged at Hart’s Island, N.
  Y. He was wounded at the battle of Peach Orchard in front of
  Petersburg, Va., on June 16, 1864, and rejoined his command from the
  hospital after sixty days’ convalescence. In addition to his law
  practice, he is President and manager of the National Investment and
  Development Company, which is engaged in the promotion and development
  of 11,000 acres of mineral, gas and oil lands in Benton County, Mo.;
  is Vice-President of the Society for Kansas.

  CONLON, WILLIAM L., Portsmouth, N. H.

  CONNELL, JOHN H., 1949 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

  CONNELLY, L. J., Lieutenant U. S. Navy, Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  CONNERY, WILLIAM P., Wheeler and Pleasant Streets, Lynn, Mass.;
  recently candidate for mayor of Lynn.

  CONNICK, ANDREW J., 244 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

  CONNOLLY, CAPT. JAMES, real estate, Coronado, Cal. He was born in
  County Cavan, Ireland, 1842; came to this country when he was but ten
  years of age, and spent much of his youth at East Dennis, Cape Cod,
  Mass. His early love for the sea was gratified later in life when he
  became captain of some of the finest deep-water ships sailing from
  Baltimore, Boston and elsewhere. His first command was the bark _May
  Queen_, a regular Baltimore and Rio packet, 1872. He then had command
  of the ship _Pilgrim_ of Boston, and made several voyages to the East
  Indies. In 1884 he was given command of the _Charger_, a larger and
  finer ship than the _Pilgrim_, and sailed to ports in Japan. He next
  had command of the _South American_, “the commodore’s ship,” of the
  Hastings fleet (Boston), and took her to Australia and other parts. He
  made several record voyages during his career, and some of these
  records still stand, having never been equalled. On one occasion he
  was wrecked off the coast of Africa; he and his wife upon being
  rescued were hospitably entertained by the Boers of the adjacent
  country. Returning to East Dennis, Mass., his wife’s health became
  poor and so he removed with her to Coronado, Cal., hoping that the
  change of climate would benefit her, but she died in 1901. She had
  accompanied her husband on several of his voyages, and had with him
  visited many parts of the world. Captain Connolly has written much and
  entertainingly. He has at present in manuscript form a novel of ocean
  life entitled “The Magic of the Sea”; is Vice-President of the Society
  for California.

  CONNOLLY, REV. ARTHUR T., Center and Creighton Streets, Roxbury, Mass.

  CONNOR, MICHAEL, 509 Beech Street, Manchester, N. H.

  CONWAY, JAMES L., 113 Worth Street, New York City.

  CONWAY, JAMES P., 296 East Third Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.; attorney at
  law and assistant chief examiner, Municipal Civil Service, New York
  City.

  CONWAY, PATRICK J., 159 East Sixtieth Street, New York City. President
  of Irish American Athletic Association and greatly interested in
  international athletics.

  COOKE, REV. MICHAEL J., Fall River, Mass. (Life member of the
  Society.)

  COONEY, BRIG.-GEN. MICHAEL, U. S. A., retired, 500 T Street, N. W.,
  Washington, D. C.; born in Ireland; private, corporal and sergeant,
  Company A, First United States Cavalry, December 4, 1856, to December
  4, 1861; quartermaster-sergeant, Sixth Cavalry, December, 1864; first
  lieutenant, Ninth Cavalry, July 28, 1866; captain, January 1, 1868;
  major, Fourth Cavalry, December 10, 1888; lieutenant-colonel, Seventh
  Cavalry, June 2, 1897; colonel, Fourth Cavalry, June 9, 1899;
  brigadier-general, retired, April 23, 1904.

  COONEY, TERRENCE, JR., Pittsfield, Mass.

  CORBETT, MICHEL J., Wilmington, N. C., born in Lismore, County of
  Waterford, Ireland, August 4, 1856, the son of John Corbett, a small
  farmer and contractor; was educated in the national schools and
  remained in Ireland until his eighteenth year, arriving in Wilmington,
  N. C., March 28, 1878, where he has since resided. He entered the
  commission business, and in due course became a partner in the firm of
  W. I. Gore & Company; later, on the withdrawal of Mr. Gore, the
  commission business, which had largely increased, was incorporated
  under the name and style of The Corbett Company, under which the
  business is now conducted. Mr. Corbett is one of the most potent
  factors in the industrial life of Wilmington, and, in addition to the
  successful conduct of his regular business, has been largely
  instrumental in the promotion, organization and management of many
  important and flourishing enterprises in Wilmington; is Vice-President
  and one of the original directors of the People’s Savings Bank; one of
  the original directors of the Murchison National Bank; President of
  the Wilmington, Southport & Little River Company; member of the firm
  of Stone & Company, and one of the Board of Managers of the James
  Walker Memorial Hospital; is a member of the Cape Fear Club, Carolina
  Yacht Club and Cape Fear Golf Club. In 1884 Mr. Corbett was married to
  Miss Mary Josephine Deans, and to her inspiration and counsel
  attributes in a large measure the credit for his success in life. The
  union has been signally blessed, ten children having been born to
  them, nine of whom are still living. Is Vice-President of the Society
  for North Carolina.

  COSGROVE, HON. JAMES, was born at Charleston, S. C., Aug. 28, 1861.
  His father, a native of Bally Connell, County Cavan, Ireland, settled
  in Charleston in February, 1839; became a prosperous merchant; was one
  of the aldermen of the city for two terms and one of the
  Representatives from Charleston County in the General Assembly of
  South Carolina in 1874–’75. His mother was Catherine Daily. The family
  have been Charlestonians for over seventy years and during this period
  father and son have been closely identified with the commercial and
  political life of the community. Mr. Cosgrove attended first a private
  school, then the parochial school attached to St. Finbar’s Cathedral
  and later the high school of Charleston, where he was graduated at the
  age of sixteen years. He then went into his father’s office and later
  established himself in the real estate and general insurance business,
  which he still successfully conducts. About twenty years ago he became
  interested in the experiments conducted by Sir Patrick Manson, an
  Irishman, Leveran, a Frenchman, and the Italians Celli, Golgi and
  Bignam, concerning the inoculation of the human body with the virus of
  malaria fever by the bite of a species of the mosquito known as the
  “Anopheles.” He followed the investigations closely and as a result of
  what was proven commenced agitation for the drainage of wet and low
  lands of the United States, to remove breeding places of this species
  of insect. At that time there was a “death line” around the coastal
  section of the Southern States and many other sections of the United
  States, within which line it was thought to be dangerous to live in
  the summer for fear of malarial fever. At first his efforts met with
  poor success, and in 1898 he determined to become a candidate for the
  State Legislature to have enacted legislation necessary for the proper
  and systematic drainage of the wet lands of South Carolina. He was
  re-elected in 1900, but such was the opposition to the new movement
  that not until 1902 did he succeed in having created for Charleston
  County “The Sanitary and Drainage Commission.” Indeed, it required a
  man of the most untiring industry and indomitable will to have
  successfully carried his purpose during these four years of
  antagonism. The work of sanitary drainage in Charleston County was
  commenced under the direction of this commission, but it was soon
  found that it absolutely required some one to take the direction of
  the work who would be willing to sacrifice his self-interest for the
  good of the public. The commissioners, comprising some of the best
  citizens of the city, with one accord turned to Mr. Cosgrove and
  requested him to take entire direction. He did so, and has since
  remained in charge. The result is that thousands of acres of fertile
  lands have been made habitable, affording dwelling places, and
  manufacturing enterprises have been inaugurated, affording employment
  to thousands on land, which a few years ago was worthless. In 1902 Mr.
  Cosgrove was defeated for re-election by a small majority, owing to
  opposition to the idea of drainage. He determined to retire from
  politics, but in 1906, answering the call of his people as voiced in
  leading editorials in the press of Charleston, he consented to again
  become a candidate and was elected by a flattering vote and re-elected
  by a still larger vote in 1908. He is chairman of the Charleston
  Delegation in the House of Representatives and chairman of the
  Committee on Banking and Insurance. Mr. Cosgrove’s efforts in behalf
  of the drainage of the low lands of the United States have been
  recognized by his appointment as member of the Executive Committee of
  the National Drainage Congress and Honorary Vice-President of the
  Seventeenth National Irrigation Congress. As a corollary of his
  drainage work, Mr. Cosgrove has been giving much attention to the
  subject of good roads, and has now on the calendar of the Legislature
  a measure providing for state aid to the building of good roads. In
  1885 Mr. Cosgrove was married to Miss Mathilde Griffith Forsythe,
  daughter of a prominent and wealthy dry goods merchant of Charleston.

  COUGHLIN, JOHN, 177 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  COX, HUGH M., M. D., 285 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York City.

  COX, MICHAEL FRANCIS, M. D., F. R. C. P. I., M. R. I. A., 26 Merrion
  Square, Dublin, Ireland. Member of Senate of Royal and of National
  University of Ireland; Vice-President of National Literary Society;
  member Society for Preservation of the Irish Language, Dante Society
  and Council Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland; Vice-President of
  the American Irish Historical Society for Ireland.

  COX, MICHAEL H., 28 Windemere Road, Dorchester, Mass.

  COX, WILLIAM T., 12 South Second Street, Elizabeth, N. J., owner of
  Cox’s Towing Line; for some years chairman of the fire commissioners
  of Elizabeth; ex-chief of the Elizabeth Volunteer Fire Department.

  COYLE, REV. JAMES, Taunton, Mass.

  COYLE, REV. JOHN D., 79 Davenport Avenue, New Haven, Conn.

  CREAGH, REV. JOHN T., J. U. L., S. T. L., J. C. D., Catholic
  University, Washington, D. C.; associate professor of canon law.

  CREAMER, WALTER H., 4 Prescott Place, Lynn, Mass. His
  great-grandfather, Edward Creamer, was born in Kinsale, Ireland, 1756,
  was graduated from Trinity College, Dublin, and in 1784 settled in
  Salem, Mass. He was a physician there. This Edward had a son, George,
  who married Hannah Gardner whose mother was Mary Sullivan, a sister of
  Gen. John Sullivan of the Revolution and of Gov. James Sullivan of
  Massachusetts. Walter H. Creamer, here mentioned, is a grandson of the
  said George and Hannah (Gardner) Creamer.

  CRIMMINS, CYRIL, of the Crimmins Realty Company, 624 Madison Avenue,
  New York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  CRIMMINS, HON. JOHN D., 40 East Sixty-eighth Street, New York City
  (member of the Executive Council and life member of the Society);
  President-General in 1901, 1902 and 1905. Served as a park
  commissioner of New York City from 1883 to 1888, during which time he
  was Treasurer and President of the board. He was a member of the Board
  of Visitors to West Point in 1894, and presidential elector
  (Democratic) in 1892 and 1904. Was appointed by Governor Roosevelt and
  served as a member of the Greater New York Charter Revision
  Commission. In 1894, he was a member of the New York State
  Constitutional Convention. Is a member of the New York Chamber of
  Commerce and officially connected with many railway, realty and
  banking corporations. Among the offices to which he has been chosen
  may be mentioned: President of the Essex and Hudson Land Improvement
  Company; honorary Vice-President of the Trust Company of America, New
  York; Vice-President of the Title Insurance Company of New York;
  Vice-President of the New York Mortgage and Security Company; director
  of the Fifth Avenue Bank of New York, and also a director in the
  following companies: The Century Realty Company and the Chelsea Realty
  Company. He is prominently identified with the charities of the Roman
  Catholic Church, as well as with non-sectarian charities. He is a
  member of the board of managers of the Society for the Prevention of
  Cruelty to Animals; member of the executive committee of the New York
  State Branch of the American National Red Cross Society; member of the
  board of directors of the Pennsylvania, New York and Long Island
  Railroad Company; member of the board of directors of the Metropolitan
  Bank; member of the board of managers of St. Vincent’s Hospital;
  member of the board of trustees of St. John’s Guild, and also of the
  Provident Loan Society of New York. Mr. Crimmins is also a director of
  the City and Suburban Homes Company of New York, which has for its
  object to provide model homes at reasonable cost for working people.
  He is a member of the following clubs: Catholic, Metropolitan,
  Lawyers, Democratic, Manhattan, and of the Wee Burn Golf Club, of
  which he was formerly President. He is likewise a member of the board
  of managers of the Sevilla Home for Children, a non-sectarian charity,
  and is also one of the managers of the Society for the Reformation of
  Juvenile Delinquents.

  CRIMMINS, CAPT. MARTIN L., U. S. A., care of War Department,
  Washington, D. C.

  CRONIN, CAPT. WILLIAM, Rutland, Vt.

  CROSTON, J. F., M. D., 83 Emerson Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  CUMMINGS, MATTHEW J., overseer of the poor, 616 Eddy Street,
  Providence, R. I.

  CUMMINS, REV. JOHN F., Roslindale, Mass.

  CUNNIFF, MICHAEL M., 1032 Beacon Street, Brookline, Mass., capitalist.

  CUNNINGHAM, HON. JAMES, 277 Congress Street, Portland, Me., is a
  member of the Executive Council of the State of Maine, one of seven
  whose duty it is to advise the governor in all appointments and State
  affairs; was born in Manor Hamilton, County Leitrim, Ireland, May 8th,
  1839, of Irish parents, and arrived in Portland, Me., October 23,
  1863, and worked as a journeyman mason for five years; he was the
  first Irishman allowed to lay bricks in Portland, and as soon as
  possible became an American citizen and cast his first vote for
  himself for the office of city councilman, being the first foreigner
  to serve in the Portland city council. His membership lasted eight
  years, the longest period of continuous service to that time of any
  citizen, either native or naturalized. Has been prominent in Catholic
  work, and is a warm friend and associate of Bishop Bacon, Bishop
  Healy, Archbishop O’Connell of Boston, and the present Bishop Walsh,
  and was the first Catholic to hold office since Maine became a state.
  He started several branches of the Ancient Order of Hibernians in
  Pennsylvania, and stood by the organization in different parts of the
  country during its darkest days, and has always been interested in the
  Irish Land League. Has been very successful in all the business
  affairs he has ever undertaken, and six years ago built the Lafayette
  Hotel, the finest hostelry in Maine, which he still continues to own
  and manage. Is the Vice-President of the Society for Maine.

  CURLEY, MICHAEL H., merchant, 115 Broad Street, Boston, Mass. (Life
  member of the Society.)

  CURRAN, PHILIP A., of the Curran Dry Goods Company, Waterbury, Conn.

  CURRY, EDMOND J., 69–71 East Eighty-ninth Street, New York City.

  CURTIN, DANIEL I., 332 East Twenty-fifth Street, New York City, was
  born in that city May 21, 1880, son of John J. Curtin (born in Tallow
  County, Waterford, Ireland, in 1849; seaman United States Navy
  1861–65), and nephew of Daniel Curtin, who constituted part of the
  bodyguard of General Nathaniel P. Banks and was killed at the Battle
  of Antietam. Was educated in the New York public schools, from which
  he graduated in 1895; studied for five years in the Scientific
  Department of Cooper Union, New York; has been engaged for the past
  nine years (1900–09) in civil engineering pursuits as assistant to the
  chief engineer Standard Gas Light Company of New York (1900–02),
  assistant to the chief engineer Jersey Central Railroad on re-survey
  of line (1902–04) and (1904–09) assistant to chief engineer,
  Department of Water Supply, Borough of Brooklyn.

  DALY, EDWARD HAMILTON, attorney at law, 54 Wall Street, New York City.

  DALY, JOHN J., 833 Longwood Avenue, Bronx, New York City; foreman, U.
  S. Immigration buildings, Ellis Island.

  DALY, HON. JOSEPH F., LL. D., 54 Wall Street, New York City; chief
  justice of the Court of Common Pleas, New York, 1890–’96; justice of
  the New York Supreme Court, 1896–’98; member of the Board of Managers,
  Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum; member of the Advisory Board, St.
  Vincent’s Hospital; served in 1900 on the commission to revise the
  laws of Porto Rico.

  DANAHER, HON. FRANKLIN M., Bensen Building, Albany, N. Y.; member of
  the State Board of Law Examiners; many years judge of the City Court
  of Albany.

  DANVERS, ROBERT E., 428 West Fifty-Eighth Street (the St. Albans), New
  York City; dealer in iron and steel.

  DAVIES, WILLIAM GILBERT, 32 Nassau Street, New York City, son of Henry
  E. Davies and Rebecca Tappan Davies, was born in New York City, March
  21, 1842. He received a collegiate education at Trinity College,
  Hartford, Conn., from which he graduated in 1860. He also studied at
  the University of Leipsic, Germany. Mr. Davies read law with Slosson,
  Hutchins and Platt, and was admitted to the bar in May, 1863, and at
  once entered earnestly upon the pursuit of the profession his father
  had so greatly adorned. During the Civil War, then raging, he served
  in the Twenty-second Regiment, New York Militia, during the Gettysburg
  campaign. Mr. Davies’ first partnership in practice was formed with
  Henry H. Anderson, but on August 1, 1866, the partnership was
  dissolved, and Mr. Davies entered the service of the Mutual Life
  Insurance Company of New York. The law department of that corporation
  was fully organized in September, 1870, with Mr. Pruyn as solicitor
  and Mr. Davies as his assistant. He remained in that position until
  May 20, 1885, at which time he became the head of the department.
  During the succeeding quarter of a century Mr. Davies, as counsel for
  one of the leading insurance companies, was largely instrumental in
  establishing rules of law on insurance matters as they exist today. He
  resigned in December, 1893, in order to resume the active practice of
  his profession. He was one of the commissioners on the widening of Elm
  Street, New York, and extending the street from Great Jones Street to
  the City Hall. Mr. Davies joined the American Irish Historical Society
  in 1898 and is a member of the New York Historical Society, the New
  York Biographical and Genealogical Society, the Medicolegal Society,
  the New England Society, the Society of the Sons of the Revolution,
  the New England Historical Genealogical Society, the Virginia
  Historical Society, the Phi Beta Kappa Alumni Association, the
  Liederkranz Society, the Society of Colonial Wars, the Century
  Association, and the Union University Lawyers, Manhattan, Tuxedo,
  Grolier, Democratic and St. Nicholas Clubs. He belongs also to the
  American, New York State, and New York City Bar Associations, and the
  Law Institute. He was married in 1870 to Miss Lucie Rice, daughter of
  Hon. Alexander H. Rice, who was three terms governor of Massachusetts.
  He resides at 22 East Forty-fifth Street. Mr. Davies is a writer of
  great fame and among many others is the author of _Papers and
  Addresses_ (published by Robert Grier Cooke of New York), on very
  interesting subjects.

  DAY, JOSEPH P., real estate, 31 Nassau Street, and 932 Eighth Avenue,
  New York City.

  DEEVES, RICHARD, of Richard Deeves & Son, builders, 305–309 Broadway,
  New York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  DELANEY, J. C., Chief Inspector, Department of Factory Inspection,
  Harrisburg, Pa.

  DELANEY, WILLIAM J., Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

  DELANY, CAPT. WILLIAM H., 254 West Fourteenth Street, New York City,
  was born April 19th, 1849, in the old Ninth Ward. His father, Captain
  John Delany, also born in New York City, was a shipmaster 30 years in
  the old Black Ball Line, carrying passengers between New York and
  Liverpool and in his earlier days was in the China and East Indies
  trade. His mother was Catherine Shelley, born in Belfast, Ireland. The
  paternal grandparents were born in Dublin and the maternal
  grandparents in Belfast. All followed the sea. Captain Delany had ten
  uncles who were shipmasters.

  DELEHANTY, HON. F. B., Judges’ Chambers, Court House, City Hall Park,
  New York; a judge of the City Court.

  DEMPSEY, GEORGE C., Lowell, Mass.

  DEMPSEY, WILLIAM P., Treasurer and manager, the Dempsey Bleachery and
  Dye Works, Pawtucket, R. I.

  DENNEN, REV. C., Pastor of Catholic Church, Wilmington, N. C.

  DEROO, REV. PETER, St. Joseph’s Church, 1127 Corbett Street, Portland,
  Ore.; author of the “History of America Before Columbus,” a most
  interesting and valuable work.

  DEVINE, JOHN T., proprietor, The Shoreham, Washington, D. C.

  DEVLIN, JAMES H., 35 Parsons Street, Brighton, Boston, Mass.

  DEVLIN, JAMES H., Jr., Barristers’ Hall, Boston, Mass., attorney at
  law, was born in that part of Boston known as Dorchester, July 21,
  1877, and received his early education in the public schools of Milton
  and Dedham; was graduated from Boston College in 1897, with the degree
  of A. B., and in 1900 from the Harvard University School of Law, with
  the degree of LL. B. Is President of the Charitable Irish Society of
  Boston, and a member of the Boston City Club. He is unmarried.

  DIXON, RICHARD, insurance, 52–54 William Street, New York City.

  DIXON, SAMUEL GIBSON, M. D., LL. D., Bryn Mawr, Pa., was born of
  Quaker parentage in the city of Philadelphia in the family homestead
  below Bartram’s Botanical Gardens, March 23, 1851. His early education
  was received at the Friends’ Schools in that city and was supplemented
  by private tutors, by whom he was prepared for Harvard College. His
  health failing, however, he went abroad for recreation and study.
  Returning home he set himself to acquire a thorough knowledge of
  business principles, taking a course at the Mercantile College. On the
  conclusion of this he studied conveyancing under the late Edward
  Bedlock of Philadelphia. He then studied law in the office of his
  brother, Edwin Saunders Dixon, Esq., attended the law course of the
  University of Pennsylvania, and was admitted to practice at the bar of
  Philadelphia June 30, 1877, continuing in the active practice of that
  profession for ten years. The practice of law left him with
  trusteeships of importance which have necessarily kept him well to the
  front in affairs. Under the stress of desk and office work his health
  again failed, and his tastes inclining him to make a hobby of
  scientific medicine he matriculated in the Medical Department of the
  University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, from which he was
  graduated with honor in 1886. While still an undergraduate, however,
  he received the unusual compliment of an appointment by the trustees
  to the position of Assistant Demonstrator of Physiology. During his
  last year in the medical school he suffered from a serious attack of
  typhoid fever, which made a foreign trip again desirable in the
  opinion of his physicians. Being greatly interested in the infant
  science of bacteriology, as soon as his strength permitted, he entered
  the Bacteriological Department of King’s College, London, from which
  he was graduated. He also took a course in the College of State
  Medicine, London, under Professor Klein, and it was while prosecuting
  observations under that master in bacteriology that he made the
  discovery of branched forms of tubercle bacilli hitherto unnoticed. He
  also studied under Pottenkofer, in Munich, and made a careful study of
  the methods of filtration of water and disposition of sewage then in
  vogue in the capitals of Great Britain and Europe. Returning to
  Philadelphia in 1888, his alma mater recognized the value of his
  attainments by appointing him the first Professor of Hygiene in the
  newly created chair in the Medical Department, and also Dean of the
  Auxiliary Department of Medicine. While in this position he embraced
  the opportunity to establish the first Laboratory of Hygiene in the
  University. Two years later he resigned these positions to accept the
  appointment of Professor of Bacteriology and Microscopical Technology
  at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, of which
  institution he became Executive Curator in 1892 and President in 1896.
  During this period his mind reverted constantly to the problem of the
  branched tubercle bacillus and the possibility which he had conceived
  of obtaining immunity to that disease by the introduction into the
  human economy of attenuated bacilli or of fluid extracts from the
  same, and he prosecuted original researches on this subject
  untiringly. On October 19, 1889, he published in the _Medical News_ of
  Philadelphia the results which he had then reached in producing
  immunity to that disease in the lower animals, and has constantly kept
  the profession informed of his investigations by means of addresses
  and contributions to medical and scientific journals. The two theses
  or propositions on which he based this theory of possible immunity to
  the tubercle bacillus are as follows: “First. It is possible that by a
  thorough filtering out of bacilli from tubercular material a filtrate
  might be obtained and attenuated so that by systematic inoculations a
  change might be produced in living animal tissues that would enable
  them to resist virulent tubercle bacilli. Second. To bring about a
  chemical or physical change in living tissues that would resist
  tubercular phthisis it is possible that inoculations with the bacillus
  would have to be made; yet, before this could be done, the power of
  the virulent bacilli would have to be diminished; otherwise the result
  would be most disastrous.” In the autumn of 1890, Doctor Dixon,
  inspired by the announcement of Professor Koch that he had succeeded
  in developing a substance which possessed the power of preventing the
  growth of the tubercle bacillus in the human economy, again visited
  Europe in order to assure himself of the accuracy of the reports and
  in the interest of humanity as well as of the various scientific and
  medical institutions with which he was connected, and had interviews
  with Koch, Virchow and Dubois Raymond. That Doctor Dixon has always
  recognized the claims of the community as a whole on members of his
  profession is sufficiently proven by the fact that he is officially
  connected with so large a number of scientific, philanthropic and
  educational institutions. He has been for eighteen years Executive
  Curator of the Philadelphia Academy of the Natural Sciences, and for
  fourteen years its President. For a number of years he was a member of
  the Board of Education of the city of Philadelphia an as Chairman of
  the Committee on Hygiene devoted much time to improving the sanitary
  condition of the schools. He is an officer of the Ludwick Institute,
  the Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis in Pennsylvania, the
  Zoological Society of Philadelphia and the Grandom Institution, a
  member of the Council of the American Philosophical Society and of the
  Historical Society of Pennsylvania, a director of the Wistar Institute
  of Anatomy of the University of Pennsylvania, a Fellow of the College
  of Physicians of Philadelphia, a member of the American Medical
  Association, the Medical Society of the State of Pennsylvania, the
  Philadelphia County Medical Society, the American Association for the
  Advancement of Science and the American Archeological and Asiatic
  Society, and one of the originators of the Geographical Society of
  Philadelphia. An enthusiast on field sports from his early boyhood,
  many of his vacations have been spent in salmon and trout fishing and
  the hunting of big game. He has been an enthusiastic and successful
  breeder of choice cattle and sporting dogs. He is a member of the
  American Kennel Club, of which he was the first Secretary, and
  President of the Philadelphia Kennel Club. Among the social clubs of
  the country he is a member of the Philadelphia Club, the Merion
  Cricket Club, the University Club, the Tarrantine Golf Club and the
  Radnor Hunt.

  DOLAN, JAMES A., 346 Broadway, New York City.

  DOLAN, THOMAS E., M. D., 250 Elizabeth Avenue, Elizabeth, N. J.

  DONAHUE, DAN A., 178 Essex Street, Salem, Mass.; outfitter to men and
  women.

  DONAHUE, R. J., cashier of the National Bank of Ogdensburg, N. Y.

  DONNELLY, HON. THOMAS F., a justice of the New York City Court, 257
  Broadway, New York City.

  DONOGHUE, D. F., M. D., 240 Maple Street, Holyoke, Mass.

  DONOVAN, DANIEL, 21 High Rock Street, Lynn, Mass.; an authority on
  heraldry, armorial bearings, etc.; particularly as the same relate to
  Ireland.

  DONOVAN, COLONEL HENRY F., editor and proprietor of _The Chicago
  Eagle_, No. 504 Teutonic Building, Chicago, Ill.; was commissioned as
  Colonel by the Governor of Illinois, and served that State four years
  as Inspector-General of the Illinois National Guard.

  DONOVAN, JOHN W., real estate, mortgages and insurance, 360 West One
  Hundred Twenty-fifth Street, New York City.

  DONOVAN, RICHARD J., attorney at law, 170 Broadway, New York City.

  DONOVAN, DR. S. E., New Bedford, Mass.

  DONOVAN, COL. WILLIAM H., Lawrence, Mass.; commander of the Ninth
  Regiment, M. V. M.; served with the regiment in Cuba during the war
  with Spain.

  DOOLEY, MICHAEL F., Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.,
  Treasurer-General of the Society and member of the Executive Council,
  was born in New Britain, Conn., in 1853. His education was obtained in
  St. John’s College, now Fordham University, from which institution he
  graduated in 1872. After leaving college, he spent two years in
  France, and upon his return to this country studied law for a time in
  the office of former Lieutenant-Governor Sill of Hartford, Conn. Some
  time after he was elected Chairman of the Board of Tax Assessors, in
  which capacity he served the city of Hartford for eight years. In 1887
  he was appointed National Bank Examiner for Connecticut and Rhode
  Island, and served until 1890, when he relinquished that office to
  conduct a brokerage business, in which he continued for three years,
  when he was again appointed National Bank Examiner and his appointment
  by Ex-President Cleveland was continued during the succeeding
  Republican administration. From 1895 to 1899 Mr. Dooley was also
  Receiver of the First National Bank of Willimantic, resigning in the
  latter year to become Secretary of the Union Trust Company of
  Providence, R. I., and in 1906 was made Vice-President of that
  institution. In April, 1908, he was elected President of the National
  Exchange Bank of Providence, which position he now holds. Mr. Dooley
  was married in 1888 to Miss Ellen Cook McManus.

  DORAN, PATRICK L., Synus Utah Grocer Company, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  DORDAR, JOHN, Forty-first Street and Park Avenue, New York City.

  DORVER, REV. WILLIAM J., pastor of St. Charles Church, Pittsfield,
  Mass.

  DOWD, WILLIS B., attorney at law, 141 Broadway, New York City;
  great-grandson of Cornelius Dowd who came to this country about 1750
  and settled in Moore County, N. C., where he became prominent. The
  family has attained much distinction in North Carolina.

  DOWLING, REV. AUSTIN, rector of the Cathedral, Providence, R. I.; a
  historian and author of much fame.

  DOWLING, HON. VICTOR J., County Court House, Chambers Street, New York
  City, Justice of the Supreme Court of New York; is the son of Dennis
  and Eliza Fierlants (Faider) Dowling, and was born July 20th, 1866.
  Received the degree of A. B. in 1881 from Manhattan College, LL. B. in
  1887 from the University of New York, where he took first prize for
  the best written and best oral examination, being the first student of
  the university to secure both prizes; M. A. in 1888 at Manhattan
  College, and LL. D. in 1908 from the New York University Law School.
  Is a member of the Bar Association of New York State, the Bar
  Association of the City of New York, the Bibliophile Society of
  Boston, the American Catholic Historical Society, the United States
  Catholic Historical Society, the Manhattan Club, Catholic Club, the
  Democratic Club, Knights of Columbus, Catholic Benevolent Union, and
  others. He is the author of the very valuable essay entitled, _Irish
  Pioneers in New York_, appearing elsewhere in this volume.

  DOWNEY, WILLIAM F., 1622 L Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  DOWNING, BERNARD, Secretary to the President of the Borough of
  Manhattan, City Hall, New York City.

  DOWNING, D. P., manager National Biscuit Company, Cambridge, Mass.

  DOYLE, ALFRED L., of John F. Doyle & Sons, real estate agents, brokers
  and appraisers, 45 William Street, New York City.

  DOYLE, DAVID A., Katonah, N. Y.; postmaster.

  DOYLE, JAMES, 455 West Twenty-eighth Street, New York City; present
  oldest member of the flour trade in New York; member of the New York
  Produce Exchange from the beginning; member of the board of managers
  of the Exchange, 1897–1901. He and his son, Mr. Nathaniel Doyle, also
  a member of the Society, are associated in trade as James Doyle &
  Company.

  DOYLE, JOHN F., of John F. Doyle & Sons, 45 William Street, New York
  City. (Life member of the Society and a member of its Executive
  Council.) Mr. Doyle is the senior member of the real estate firm of
  John F. Doyle & Sons. He was born in New York City, 1837, a son of
  James Doyle, who participated in the Irish revolution of 1798, and who
  came to the United States early in 1806. This James Doyle, the
  immigrant, had a son who was killed in the Florida war of 1837, and a
  grandson who fell in 1861, fighting for the Union. John F. Doyle, the
  subject of this sketch and member of the Society, entered the law
  office of Alexander Hamilton, grandson of the first Secretary of the
  Treasury, afterwards the firm of Hamilton, Rives & Rogers, and
  remained with them from 1853 to 1869, in the meantime studying law and
  being admitted to the bar in 1862. Alexander Hamilton, Francis R.
  Rives, a son of William C. Rives, of Virginia, at one time minister to
  France and senator, and Nathan Pendleton Rogers, all of the old
  Revolutionary stock, were members of the firm. Mr. Doyle’s management
  of some Wall Street properties for them at this period became so
  conspicuous that he was urged by them to assume the management of
  their estates, which he did. Shortly afterwards followed the
  acquisition of the estates of such well-known people as Mrs. Harriet
  L. Langdon, granddaughter-in-law of the first John Jacob Astor, John
  Pyne March, Mrs. Morgan L. Livingston, George L. Schuyler, James M.
  Pendleton, A. Newbold Morris, James H. Jones, John Steward, Jr., Royal
  Phelps, deceased, Royal Phelps Carroll, Robert S. Minturn, estate of
  Gertrude L. Lowndes, deceased, William H. King, of Newport, R. I., and
  others too numerous to mention in detail. A feature of his career as a
  successful manager lies in the fact that the business associations and
  connections formed by him in the beginning are still held intact.
  Among the notable sales made by him are those from William H. Morris
  to John Jacob Astor in 1880 conveying 150 acres of lots in the
  twenty-third ward on and adjacent to Harlem River; the great sale of
  South Brooklyn lots at Gowanus Bay in 1884. Mr. Doyle represents today
  the same old and well-known families and estates represented by him so
  many years ago. During his career Mr. Doyle has met and done business
  with some of the most notable men connected with families famous in
  American history, such as three of the four sons of the first
  Alexander Hamilton, Admiral Farragut, Capt. Percival Drayton, Rawlins
  Lowndes, of South Carolina, William C. Rives, U. S. senator from
  Virginia, at one time minister to France, George L. Schuyler, grandson
  of Philip Schuyler, and owner of the famous yacht _America_, Philip
  Schuyler, his son, Henry Grinnell of Arctic fame, Robert J. and
  Mortimer Livingston, Hon. John Lee Carroll, Commodore Wm. K.
  Vanderbilt, and scores of others equally well known, besides
  representing branches now of four lineal descendants of signers of the
  Declaration of Independence. His two sons, Col. John F. Doyle, Jr.,
  and Alfred L. Doyle, have been with him in business for years past and
  all three enjoy an enviable reputation for integrity, ability and
  prudence in all their undertakings.

  DOYLE, COL. JOHN F., JR., of John F. Doyle & Sons, 45 William Street,
  New York City.

  DOYLE, NATHANIEL, of James Doyle & Company, flour, 455 West
  Twenty-eighth Street, New York City; member of the board of managers,
  New York Produce Exchange; member of the New York Club, Fifth Avenue
  and Thirty-fifth Street; member Veteran Association, Seventh Regiment,
  N. G. S. N. Y.

  DRISCOLL, REV. JOHN T., Fonda, N. Y., clergyman, born Albany, N. Y.,
  1836; educated in schools of that place; graduated Manhattan College,
  1885; after studying four years at Troy Theological Seminary, was
  ordained to the priesthood; took advanced course at Catholic
  University, S. T. B., S. T. L. (former being first degree conferred by
  University); for three years taught philosophical branches in
  Theological Seminary at Brighton, Mass., and for several seasons has
  been a regular lecturer at Plattsburgh Summer School; author
  “Christian Philosophy—The Human Soul,” and “Christian Philosophy—God.”

  DRUMMOND, M. J., President of M. J. Drummond & Company, 182 Broadway,
  New York City. Mr. Drummond was born on February 1, 1851, in Jersey
  City, N. J., and was graduated from De La Salle Institute, New York
  City. He started in the iron pipe business in 1879, and in 1887
  organized, as senior partner, the firm of M. J. Drummond & Company,
  which has since been incorporated and is one of the most successful
  iron pipe concerns in the United States. Mr. Drummond has been
  prominent in the charitable, social and business life of New York for
  a generation. He is President of M. J. Drummond & Company, of the
  Shawmut Clay Manufacturing Company, of the Glamorgan Iron Works, of
  the Nassau County Water Company, and of the Green Island Water
  Company. As well as being a director of this company, he is a director
  of the Nassau Union Bank and a trustee and member of the Executive
  Board of the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank and the Broadway Trust
  Company, and he holds membership in the Chamber of Commerce, the New
  York Athletic Club, the Hardware Club, and the Catholic Club, and was
  recently President of the Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick.

  DUFFICY, PETER J., 120 West Fifty-ninth Street, New York City.

  DUFFY, REV. FRANCIS P., St. Joseph’s Seminary, Dunwoodie, Yonkers, N.
  Y. Professor of Philosophy.

  DUNNE, F. L., 328 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  DUNNE, FINLEY PETER, “Mister Dooley.” Author, journalist and humorist,
  born Chicago, July 10, 1867; son of Peter and Ellen (Finley) Dunne;
  educated in Chicago public schools; married, in New York City,
  December 9, 1902, Margaret Abbott; connected with Chicago newspapers
  from 1885 to 1899; associate editor _American Magazine_; Catholic;
  author of “Mr. Dooley in Peace and in War” (1898); “Mr. Dooley in the
  Hearts of His Countrymen” (1898); “Mr. Dooley’s Philosophy” (1900);
  “Mr. Dooley’s Opinions” (1901); “Observations by Mr. Dooley” (1902);
  “Dissertations by Mr. Dooley” (1906); address, 341 Fifth Avenue, New
  York City.

  DUVAL, C. LOUIS, 143 Liberty Street, New York City. Warehouse manager.

  DWYER, THOMAS, builder, Amsterdam Avenue and One Hundred and
  Thirty-ninth Street, New York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  DWYER, W. D., 202 Despatch Building, St. Paul, Minn. Chief Counsel of
  St. Paul City Railway Company.

  EDITOR OF “THE ROSARY MAGAZINE,” Somerset, O. (Life member of the
  Society.)

  EGAN, REV. M. H., St. Bernard’s Church, Keene, N. Y.

  ELLARD, GEORGE W., 180 Lisbon Street, Lewiston, Me.

  ELLIOTT, DR. GEORGE W., Immigration Office, Ellis Island, N. Y. He is
  the duly accredited representative of the Canadian Government at the
  port of New York, co-operating with the public health and marine
  hospital service of the United States in connection with the medical
  examination of aliens passing through the United States immigration
  station, Ellis Island, destined for all points in the Dominion of
  Canada. Doctor Elliott is a native of Ireland.

  EMMET, J. DUNCAN, M. D., 103 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  EMMET, ROBERT, Moreton Paddox, Warwick, England.

  EMMET, THOMAS ADDIS, M. D., LL. D., 89 Madison Avenue, New York City.
  (Life member of the Society and a member of the Executive Council.)
  Grand nephew of the Irish patriot, Robert Emmet.

  ENRIGHT, THOMAS J., attorney at law, 71 Central Street, Lowell, Mass.

  EUSTACE, HON. ALEXANDER C., of the law firm A. C. & J. P. Eustace, 334
  East Water Street, Elmira, N. Y.; during many years past identified as
  attorney or counsel, with many of the most important litigations
  before the courts in southern and western New York; was for three
  years, prior to 1893, President of the New York State Civil Service
  Commission.

  FAHY, THOMAS A., attorney at law, 14 South Broad Street, Philadelphia,
  Pa.

  FALAHEE, JOHN J., real estate, 120 West Fifty-ninth Street, New York
  City.

  FALLON, HON. JOSEPH D., LL. D., 789 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.;
  justice of the South Boston Municipal Court; Vice-President, Union
  Institution for Savings.

  FALLON, HON. JOSEPH P., 1900 Lexington Avenue, New York City; justice
  of the Ninth District Municipal Court.

  FARLEY, MOST REV. JOHN M., D. D., 452 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  FARRELL, EDWARD D., 18 West Eighty-sixth Street, New York City.
  Retired. Member Catholic Club of New York and Society of the Friendly
  Sons of St. Patrick.

  FARRELL, LEO F., 171 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I. Insurance
  and brokerage.

  FARRELL, JOHN F., Brander-Walsh Co., 89 Worth Street, New York City.

  FARRELL, JOHN T., M. D., 1488 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  FARRELL, WILLIAM J., 115 Maiden Lane, New York City. (Life member of
  the Society.) Was born on the corner of Sixth Avenue and Waverly
  Place, New York City, April 27, 1859, of Irish parents, who though
  born and brought up in Dublin did not meet till they reached New York,
  where in due course they were married in the old St. Joseph’s Church
  on lower Sixth Avenue. Mr. Farrell was educated at St. Francis’
  College, conducted in Brooklyn by the Franciscan Brothers, and after
  graduating therefrom obtained a position as clerk with a Spanish firm
  whose business it was to import corks and corkwood. On the death of
  his employers he succeeded to the business, which he has carried on
  ever since, having branch houses in Cataluna and Andalucia. Mr.
  Farrell acquired a knowledge of the Spanish language, and has made
  numerous trips to Spain besides several to Cuba and Mexico in his
  business. He is a member of the Democratic Club, the Catholic Club and
  the New York Press Club.

  FARRELLY, FRANK T., Springfield News Company, Main Street,
  Springfield, Mass.

  FARRELLY, STEPHEN, American News Company, 39 Chambers Street, New York
  City. (Life member and member of the Executive Council of the
  Society.)

  FARRELLY, T. CHARLES, American News Company, 39 Chambers Street, New
  York City.

  FEELEY, WILLIAM J., Treasurer of the W. J. Feeley Company,
  silversmiths and manufacturing jewelers, 203 Eddy Street, Providence,
  R. I.

  FERGUSON, HUGH, of Hugh Ferguson & Company, George Street, Charleston,
  S. C.

  FINLEY, JAMES D., Board of Trade, Norfolk, Va.

  FINN, REV. THOMAS J., Box 242, Port Chester, N. Y.

  FITZGERALD, CHARLES, 904 Main Street, Hartford, Conn.

  FITZGERALD, REV. D. W., 9 Pleasant Street, Penacook, N. H.

  FITZGERALD, HON. JAMES, 140 East Seventy-ninth Street, New York City;
  a justice of the Supreme Court of New York.

  FITZGERALD, HON. WILLIAM T. A., attorney at law and register of deeds
  for Suffolk County, Mass. Born in Boston, December 19, 1871; educated
  in Boston public schools; Quincy Grammar School, 1884; English High
  School, 1887; Boston University Law School, LL. B., _cum laude_, 1897;
  Common Council of Boston, 1897; Committee on Appropriations and
  Legislative Affairs (chairman); House of Representatives,
  1898–1899–1900; Committee on Metropolitan Affairs; Dedication of
  Massachusetts Monument at Antietam (special); Monitor; Senate,
  1901–1902–1903; Committee on Rules, Judiciary; Street Railways; Public
  Charitable Institutions; Liquor Law; Revision of Public Statutes;
  Libraries; Special Committee on Governor’s Message on Street Railways;
  member and Vice-President Democratic State Committee; President
  Democratic City Committee of Boston, 1902–1903–1904–1905; K. of C.; A.
  O. H.; B. P. O. Elks; Charitable Irish Society (past President);
  Catholic Union of Boston; Y. M. C. A. Boston College; Boston City
  Club; U. I. L.; Quincy School Association (past President); Boston Bar
  Association; elected Register of Deeds for Suffolk County November 6,
  1906; address, Court House, Boston, Mass.

  FITZPATRICK, EDWARD, Louisville, Ky., on the staff of the Louisville,
  Ky., _Times_; a resident of New Albany, Ind.; member of the committee
  to select books for the New Albany Public Library; was, from 1878 to
  1885, Indiana correspondent of the Louisville _Courier-Journal_,
  reporting the Legislature two terms, 1883–’85, for that paper, and at
  the same time was assistant to the chief clerk in the House of
  Representatives; was appointed a clerk in the U. S. Q. M. Depot at
  Jeffersonville, Ind., in 1885, but resigned to re-enter the employ of
  the _Courier-Journal_ as political reporter in Louisville; was four
  years on the Louisville _Post_; returned to the _Courier-Journal_; was
  transferred to the _Times_ (the afternoon edition of the
  _Courier-Journal_), and has been on that paper for many years past. He
  is a keen and forceful writer, and is one of the ablest men in
  American journalism.

  FITZPATRICK, THOMAS B., senior member of the firm Brown, Durrell &
  Company, importers and manufacturers, 104 Kingston Street, Boston,
  Mass.; Rand-McNally Building, Chicago, Ill., and 11–19 West Nineteenth
  Street, New York City; President of the Union Institution for Savings,
  Boston, and a director in the United States Trust Company of that
  city. Is a member of the Executive Council and Vice-President of the
  Society for Georgia.

  FLANNERY, CAPT. JOHN, Savannah, Ga.; of the John Flannery Company,
  cotton factors and commission merchants; was a non-commissioned
  officer of the Irish Jasper Greens in garrison at Fort Pulaski, 1861;
  was later lieutenant and captain, C. S. A., serving under Gen. Joe
  Johnston and General Hood; became a partner, in 1865, in the cotton
  firm, L. J. Guilmartin & Company, having a line of steamers from
  Charleston, S. C., to Palatka, Fla.; bought out the business in 1877;
  founded the house of John Flannery & Company; became director and
  President of the Southern Bank of the State of Georgia; is
  ex-President of the Southern Cotton Exchange; captain, 1872–’98, of
  the Jasper Greens.

  FLYNN, COL. DAVID M., Princeton, N. J., is cashier of the First
  National Bank of Princeton. He is probably the youngest officer in the
  National Guard of New Jersey to hold the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel,
  being only thirty-three years of age, born in Princeton in 1876. In
  the Guard, as well as in business life, Colonel Flynn has come up from
  the ranks. He was one of the moving spirits in the organization of
  Company L of the Second Regiment, which has distinguished itself on
  the rifle range at Sea Girt. He enlisted in the company as a private
  in 1900; was made a corporal in 1901, battalion sergeant-major in
  1903; re-enlisted in 1905; was made captain and paymaster of the
  Second Brigade by Colonel Collins December 10, 1906; major and
  paymaster, Second Brigade, December 10, 1907, and major and inspector
  of small arms practice, July 9, 1908. Colonel Flynn’s success in a
  business way has been as remarkable and gratifying as his military
  success. Owing to the death of his father, he began work in a store at
  the age of thirteen, where by his industry and integrity he attracted
  attention to himself. He studied at night, and when nineteen years of
  age passed a United States civil service examination, and was named
  registry clerk in the Princeton postoffice, which position he held
  until about ten years ago, when he was chosen teller of the First
  National Bank. Later he was made cashier of the bank and he has more
  than made good. Since his connection with the bank the number of
  depositors has more than tripled and the deposits have more than
  doubled. Colonel Flynn possesses an attribute valuable in all walks of
  life, but more especially in the banking world—he has never touched
  liquor of any kind. He is Treasurer of the Citizens’ Association,
  Treasurer of the Princeton Militia Company, Treasurer of the Princeton
  Fish and Game Association, chairman of the Committee on Collections of
  the New Jersey Bankers’ Association, Past Grand Knight of the Knights
  of Columbus and is publisher of the _Bankers’ Loose Leaf Discount
  Ledger_.

  FOGARTY, JAMES A., 264 Blatchley Avenue, New Haven, Conn., recently a
  police commissioner of New Haven.

  FOGARTY, JEREMIAH W., Assessing Department, Registry of Deeds, City
  Hall, Boston, Mass.

  FORD, HON. JOHN, County Court House, Chambers Street, New York City;
  Justice of the Supreme Court of New York, Ex-State Senator; member of
  the Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick.

  GAFFNEY, HON. T. ST. JOHN, attorney at law; member of the French
  Legion of Honor; 41 Riverside Drive, New York City; is now U. S.
  Consul-General, Dresden, Germany; Vice-President of the Society for
  Germany.

  GALLAGHER, DANIEL P., 27 East Twenty-second Street, New York City;
  iron manufacturer.

  GALLAGHER, JAMES, Cleveland, N. Y., attorney at law; born in
  Coxsackie, N. Y., January 17, 1853; son of Michael and Ann (McCracken)
  Gallagher; educated in the public schools, Assumption Academy, Utica,
  N. Y.; married January 2, 1883, Frances Busan; one child, William M.
  (born February 16, 1886). Supervisor of town and President of village
  of Cleveland, N. Y.; member of State and County Bar Associations; was
  President of the board of education for more than 20 years. Address:
  Cleveland, N. Y.

  GALLAGHER, PATRICK, contractor and builder, 11 East Fifty-ninth
  Street, New York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  GAMBLE, HON. ROBERT JACKSON, Washington, D. C., United States Senator
  from South Dakota.

  GANNON, FRANK S., 251 West End Avenue, New York City; railroads.

  GARRIGAN, RT. REV. PHILIP J., D. D., bishop of the Roman Catholic
  diocese of Sioux City, Iowa; Vice-President of the Society for Iowa.

  GARRITY, P. H., 221 Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  GARVAN, HON. EDWARD J., 36 Pearl Street, Hartford, Conn.,
  Attorney-at-Law and Judge of the Hartford Police Court.

  GARVAN, HON. FRANCIS P., Assistant District Attorney, 23 Fifth Avenue,
  New York City.

  GARVAN, HON. PATRICK, 236 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, Conn. (A life
  member of the Society and a member of the Executive Council.) He was
  born in Ireland March 8, 1836, and came to this country in May, 1851,
  and since 1852 has resided in Hartford. At the age of twenty-one Mr.
  Garvan began his business career as a contractor and builder and
  continued at the same for a period of twenty-one years. Many of the
  public buildings and churches east of the Connecticut River were built
  by him during this time. He was also a partner in a paper and paper
  stock business carried on in Hartford under the name of E. J. Carroll
  & Company. From 1877 to 1906, having purchased the interest of Mr.
  Carroll, he conducted under his own name a paper and paper stock
  business exclusively. In 1906 the business was incorporated under the
  name of P. Garvan, Inc., and is at the present time carried on under
  that name. It has grown to such proportion that at the present time it
  occupies four warehouses on State Street in Hartford, with offices at
  205 and 207 State Street, and one large storage plant at Holyoke,
  Mass. Recently the firm has opened offices at 261 Broadway, New York
  City, and its interests are cared for by Thomas F. Garvan, who has
  been associated with his father for eighteen years. Mr. Garvan is also
  identified with several mills, being President of the Eastern Straw
  Board Company at Versailles, Conn., Hartford Board Company of
  Hartford, Conn., and the Newington Paper Company of Newington, Conn.
  Three of his sons, Thomas F., Edward J., and John S., are associated
  in business with him. Mr. Garvan has always been a staunch Republican.
  During his residence in East Hartford he held many positions of honor
  and trust, having been chairman of the School Board of that town for
  twelve years; was President of both Village Improvement and Street
  Lighting Associations; trustee and Treasurer of the Raymond Library,
  and for several years chairman of the Republican Town Committee. In
  1884 he represented the town in the House of Representatives, and was
  re-elected as its first representative in 1885, serving as chairman of
  the School Fund Committee of that year, and as a member of the Finance
  Committee in 1884. In 1890 he was elected State Senator from the
  Second Senatorial District by the largest Republican majority given
  any candidate in this district up to that time. For some years
  previous to 1894 he was a member of the Republican State Central
  Committee from the Second District, but resigned that office upon his
  removal to Hartford. He was selected by the Connecticut Convention as
  a delegate to the Republican Convention at Chicago which nominated
  President Taft. When the Park Department of this city was reorganized,
  the Legislature provided for the appointment of a commission to have
  sole charge of this important work. Mr. Garvan was named as one of the
  commissioners for the term of ten years. The Board of Park
  Commissioners particularly entrusted to Commissioner Garvan the
  purchase of lands for and the development of Riverside Park. In 1898,
  as President of this board, he delivered the dedicatory address at the
  services attending the opening of Riverside Park to the public. This
  park has become one of the most useful pleasure grounds in this city,
  giving, as it does, a place of recreation and rest for the poorer
  classes and children of the East Side. Mr. Garvan has always taken a
  great interest in educational matters, three of his sons having
  graduated from Yale University and his daughters having finished their
  educations abroad. Two of his sons entered the profession of law,
  Frank P. Garvan, the present Assistant District Attorney of New York,
  and Edward J. Garvan, who was Judge of the Hartford Police Court for
  five years. The latter is now identified with his father’s business
  interests. Mr. Garvan enjoys the respect and esteem of a very wide
  circle of friends and acquaintances, not only throughout the State of
  Connecticut, but wherever his large business interests extend. He is a
  self-made, practical business man, cautious, conservative and strictly
  honorable in all his dealings, and through his native genius and his
  untiring energy he has been uniformly successful in all his business
  affairs. He is now a director of St. Francis Hospital, director of the
  State Bank and the Riverside Trust Company; is a trustee of the
  Society for Savings at Hartford and of the Cathedral parish, Hartford.
  In January, 1861, Mr. Garvan married Miss Mary A. Carroll of East
  Hartford, and ten children were born to them, eight of whom, four sons
  and four daughters, are living at the present time. His wife died in
  September, 1906.

  GELSHENEN, WILLIAM H., 100 William Street, New York City.

  GEOGHEGAN, CHARLES A., 537–539 West Broadway, New York City.

  GEOGHEGAN, JOSEPH, Salt Lake City, Utah. (Life member of the Society
  and its Vice-President for Utah.) Vice-President of the board of
  education, Salt Lake City; director of the Utah National Bank;
  director of the Utah Loan and Building Association; director of the
  Butler Liberal Manufacturing Company, all three concerns of Salt Lake
  City; also, director in many other corporations. He is general agent
  in Utah for Swift & Company of Chicago; Borden’s Condensed Milk
  Company of New York; the American Can Company of New York, and the
  Pennsylvania Salt Mfg. Company of Philadelphia. He is broker for the
  following: The Western Sugar Refining Company of San Francisco, Cal.;
  the Utah Sugar Company of Lehi, Utah; the Amalgamated Sugar Company of
  Ogden, Utah; the Idaho Sugar Company of Idaho Falls, Idaho, and the
  Fremont County Sugar Company of Sugar City, Idaho.

  GEOGHEGAN, JOSEPH G., 20 East Seventy-third Street, New York City.
  (Life member of the Society.)

  GEOGHEGAN, WALTER F., 537–539 West Broadway, New York City.

  GIBBONS, JOHN T., merchant, corner of Poydras and South Peters
  streets, New Orleans, La.; brother of Cardinal Gibbons. (Life member
  of the Society.)

  GIBBONS, PETER J., M. D., 49 Park Avenue, New York City.

  GILDAY, WALTER C., M. D., 44 West Thirty-seventh Street, New York
  City, was born January 22, 1871, in the town of Cherry Valley, N. Y.,
  of Irish parentage; graduated from the Albany Medical College in 1894;
  Lecturer on General Surgery in the New York Polyclinic Medical School;
  attending surgeon St. Elizabeth’s Hospital; Fellow New York Academy of
  Medicine; member American Medical Association, State Medical Society,
  County Medical Society; member New York Athletic Club and New York
  Republican Club.

  GILLESPIE, GEORGE J., of the law firm Gillespie & O’Connor, 56 Pine
  Street, New York City; trustee, Catholic Summer School (Cliff Haven);
  member of the board of managers of the N. Y. Roman Catholic Orphan
  Asylum; Vice-President of the Particular Council, Society of St.
  Vincent de Paul, New York City; member of the N. Y. Board of
  Education; recently tax commissioner of the City of New York. (Life
  member of the Society.)

  GILMAN, JOHN E., 43 Hawkins Street, Boston, Mass.; has been
  adjutant-general on the staff of the Commander-in-Chief, Grand Army of
  the Republic. In August, 1862, Mr. Gilman enlisted in Co. E., Twelfth
  Massachusetts Infantry (Webster Regiment), and participated in
  campaigns under Generals Pope, McClellan, Burnside, Hooker and Meade
  up to the battle of Gettysburg, Pa., where, on July 2, 1863, his right
  arm was shot off near the shoulder. Securing his discharge from the
  army on September 28, 1863, he returned to Boston. In 1864, he entered
  the service of the State and served in various departments until 1883,
  when he was made settlement clerk of the directors of Public
  Institutions of Boston. He was appointed soldiers’ relief
  commissioner, April 2, 1901. He has been a comrade of Posts 14, 7 and
  26, G. A. R., since 1868, being commander of the latter post in 1888.
  He was department inspector of the Massachusetts G. A. R. in 1895;
  junior vice-commander in 1896; senior vice-commander in 1897;
  delegate-at-large in 1898; and department commander in 1899.

  GILPATRIC, WALTER J., Saco, Me., was born in Lyman, York County,
  Maine, March 3, 1869, and since 1876 has resided in Saco. Is a lawyer,
  and has served the city at various times as city solicitor, tax
  collector and member of the city council, and was elected alderman in
  March, 1909. Is a Democrat; has served on the Democratic State
  Committee for twelve years, and was delegate from the First
  Congressional District to the National Democratic Convention at
  Denver, Colorado, July, 1908. Is agent of the Biddeford and Saco Water
  Company and of York Light and Heat Company at Old Orchard, Me., since
  March, 1901. Is a member of the Sons of the American Revolution. Mr.
  Gilpatric is a descendant of Thomas and Margaret Gilpatrick, who
  emigrated from Colerain, Ireland, in 1724 and settled in Biddeford,
  Me., and who had nine grandsons in the Revolutionary War.

  GOFF, HON. JOHN W., Recorder’s Chambers, New York City.

  GORMAN, CAPT. DENNIS J., assessors’ office, City Hail, Boston, Mass.

  GORMAN, JOHN F., attorney at law, Stephen Girard Building,
  Philadelphia, Pa.

  GORMAN, WILLIAM, attorney at law, Stephen Girard Building,
  Philadelphia, Pa.; member of the Pennsylvania Bar Association, the
  Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the American Academy of Social and
  Political Science; the Alumni Association of the University of
  Pennsylvania, and other organizations. He is officially connected with
  the Commonwealth Title Insurance and Trust Company of Philadelphia.
  (Life member of the Society and a member of the Executive Council.)

  GRAINGER, J. V., Wilmington, N. C., First Vice-President of Murchison
  National Bank.

  GRIFFIN, JOHN C., insurance, Skowhegan, Me.

  GRIFFIN, MARTIN IGNATIUS JOSEPH, editor and publisher; born in
  Philadelphia, October 23, 1842; son of Terrence J. Griffin, “the Free
  Soil Baker,” of Philadelphia. Mr. Griffin received his education in
  private, parochial and public schools. He married, in Philadelphia,
  October 2, 1870, Mary A. E. McMullen. He was editor of _The Guardian
  Angel_, 1867–’70; associate editor _Catholic Standard_, 1870–’73;
  proprietor and editor of the _Journal of the Irish Catholic Benevolent
  Union_, 1872–1903; and of _Griffin’s Journal_, 1894–1900. Delegate to
  several of the State Prohibition Conventions and the National
  Convention at Cincinnati in 1892. He has been proprietor and editor of
  the _American Catholic Historical Researches_ since 1886; and was
  founder of the _American Catholic Historical Society_ of Philadelphia,
  1884. Mr. Griffin is author of “Catholicity in Philadelphia”; “The
  Trial of John Ury”; “The History of Commodore John Barry”; “Commodore
  John Barry, the Record of His Career as Father of the American Navy,
  1903”; “Life of Thomas Fitz-Simons, the Catholic Signer of the
  Constitution of the United States”; “Life of General Stephen Moylan,”
  and other works. Residence, 1935 North Eleventh Street, Philadelphia.

  GRIFFIN, PATRICK FRANCIS, 322 West Seventy-seventh Street, New York
  City. Clothier and designer.

  GRIFFIN, RT. REV. MGR. THOMAS, D. D., St. John’s presbytery, 44 Temple
  Street, Worcester, Mass.

  GUILFOILE, FRANCIS P., attorney at law, Waterbury, Conn.

  HAGGERTY, J. HENRY, of the Haggerty Refining Company, oils, 50 South
  Street, New York City.

  HALLEY, CHARLES V., 756 East One Hundred and Seventy-fifth Street, New
  York City.

  HALLORAN, JOHN H., 213 Sixth Avenue, New York City.

  HALTIGAN, PATRICK J., editor, _The Hibernian_, Washington, D. C.;
  author of several historical works.

  HANNAN, HON. JOHN, mayor of Ogdensburg, N. Y.; President of the
  Ogdensburg Coal and Towing Company, 44 and 46 Water Street.

  HANRAHAN, JOHN D., M. D., Rutland, Vt., a native of County Limerick,
  Ireland; was graduated in medicine from the University of the City of
  New York, 1867; in June, 1861, he was, on examination (not having
  graduated), appointed surgeon in the United States Navy, and served
  through the entire Civil War. The vessels on which he served did duty
  mostly on the rivers of Virginia and North Carolina, where he served
  with the army as well as the navy, thereby having the benefit and
  experience of both branches of the service, especially in the surgical
  line. In August, 1863, the vessel on which he was serving was captured
  at the mouth of the Rappahannock River and all on board made
  prisoners. They were taken overland to Richmond where they were
  confined in Libby Prison. At that time the Confederates were very
  short of surgeons and medical supplies, and he was asked if he would
  go over to Belle Island and attend the Union prisoners. After
  consulting his fellow-prisoners he consented, and for six weeks he
  attended the sick and wounded Union prisoners faithfully, under very
  great disadvantages, as the appliances were very limited. After that
  he was paroled. While a prisoner of war he was treated with the
  greatest courtesy and consideration by the medical staff and officers
  of the Confederacy. After the close of the war he was settled in New
  York City, but for nearly forty years has been a resident of Rutland,
  Vt. He was town and city physician of Rutland for many years. He was
  appointed surgeon of the Third Vermont Regiment, 1871, by Governor
  Stewart; was the first President of the Rutland County Medical and
  Surgical Society; has been a director and consulting surgeon of the
  Rutland (Vt.) Hospital; consulting surgeon to the Fanny Allen
  Hospital, Winooski, Vt.; a member of the Vermont Sanitary Association,
  and a member of the Vermont Society for the Prevention of
  Tuberculosis; President of Rutland Village two years and trustee eight
  years; county commissioner one year; President, United States pension
  examining board four years under President Cleveland, and President of
  the same board four years under President Harrison. He was postmaster
  of Rutland during the second term of President Cleveland. He has since
  its organization been an active member of the G. A. R.; surgeon of
  Roberts Post, the largest in Vermont; has served three terms as
  medical director of the Department; served on the staffs of three
  commanders-in-chief—Veasy, Palmer and Weissert; a member of
  Commander-in-Chief Stewart’s staff. Doctor Hanrahan is the author of
  several medical papers, has performed many surgical operations, and
  has served through several epidemics of smallpox and diphtheria. He
  was a delegate to the Democratic National conventions of 1884, 1888,
  and chairman of the Vermont delegation to the National Convention of
  1892. Also a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in St.
  Louis, 1904, and to the Ancient Order of Hibernians convention in St.
  Louis, July 19, 1904. Is Vice-President of the Society for Vermont.

  HARKINS, RT. REV. MATTHEW, D. D., Roman Catholic Bishop of Providence,
  30 Fenner Street, Providence, R. I.

  HARRISON, HON. ALEXANDER, Hartford, Conn., recently mayor of Hartford.

  HARRINGTON, REV. J. C., rector of St. Joseph’s Church, Greene Street,
  Lynn, Mass.

  HARRINGTON, REV. JOHN M., Orono, Me.

  HARRIS, HON. CHARLES N., 31 East Forty-ninth Street, New York City.
  City Magistrate.

  HARSON, M. JOSEPH, 200 Broadway, New York City.

  HARTY, JOHN F., Savannah, Ga., of Seiler & Harty, insurance agents.

  HASSETT, HON. THOMAS, 299 Broadway, New York City; was born in Bath,
  Steuben County, New York, February 7, 1865, and is a graduate of
  Haverling High School of that place. Is Secretary of the New York
  Board of Water Supply. (Life member of the Society.)

  HAYES, HON. NICHOLAS J., Sheriff, County of New York, 299 Broadway,
  New York City.

  HAYES, COL. PATRICK E., Pawtucket, R. I.

  HEALY, DAVID, 70 Jane Street, New York City; U. S. Immigration
  service.

  HEALY, JOHN F., general manager of the Davis Colliery Company, Elkins,
  W. Va. Vice-President of the Society for West Virginia.

  HEALY, RICHARD, department store; residence 188 Institute Road,
  Worcester, Mass.

  HENDRICK, HON. PETER A., Justice of the Supreme Court of New York,
  County Court House, Chambers Street, New York City.

  HENNESSEY, MICHAEL E., on the staff of the _Daily Globe_, Boston,
  Mass.; a newspaper man of wide experience and exceptional ability.

  HENRY, CHARLES T., 120 Liberty Street, New York City.

  HENRY, DR. FRANK C., 260 State Street, Perth Amboy, N. J.

  HENRY, J. P., M. D., 329 West Fifty-eighth Street, New York City.

  HERBERT, VICTOR, musician, composer; born in Dublin, Ireland, February
  1, 1859; grandson of Samuel Lover, the popular Irish novelist;
  educated by private tutors in Germany; musical education covered
  complete range, but he specialized in the violoncello and solo
  ’cellist in the Court Orchestra of the Kingdom of Wurtemberg, at
  Stuttgart and _en tour_ in various European cities. In that capacity
  came to New York City, 1886, as solo ’cellist at Metropolitan Opera
  House; afterward appeared in same capacity with the leading
  orchestras; when Gilmore died and the question of securing a conductor
  for the Twenty-second Regiment Band who would be a worthy successor of
  the famous leader became important, he was chosen leader, and has held
  the position for twelve years. Was for some time conductor of the
  Pittsburgh Orchestra, and for the past few years has been at the head
  of his own New York organization. Author of many comic operas,
  including “Prince Ananias,” “The Ameer,” “Babes in Toyland,” “It
  Happened in Nordland,” etc.; of the cantata, “The Captive,” and of
  numerous compositions for band and orchestra as well as many vocal
  numbers. Is a member of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick. His
  grandfather either wrote or first set to music the famous song, _The
  Low Back Car_. Address, 321 West One Hundred and Eighth Street, New
  York City.

  HERNAN, J. J., Coronado, Cal.

  HICKEY, JAMES G., manager of the United States Hotel, Boston, Mass.
  (Life member of the Society.)

  HICKEY, JOHN J., plumbing contractor, 8 East One Hundred and
  Twenty-ninth Street, New York City.

  HICKEY, REV. WILLIAM A., Clinton, Mass.

  HIERS, JAMES LAWTON, M. D., Savannah, Ga., ophthalmologist, otologist
  and laryngologist; is connected with Park View Sanatarium, Bethesda
  Orphan Home and St. Mary’s Home, all of Savannah; assistant
  surgeon-general Uniform Rank, Knights of Pythias; member American
  Medical Association, councillor and ex-Vice-President Medical
  Association of Georgia, ex-President Chatham County Medical Society,
  ex-President Alumni Society Medical Department of the University of
  Georgia, ex-President State Sociological Society and member First
  Congressional District Medical Society. Is also a member of the
  Hibernian Society of Savannah, Ga.

  HIGGINS, FRANCIS, Manhattan Club, Twenty-sixth Street and Madison
  Avenue, New York City. Retired merchant.

  HIGGINS, JAMES J., 85 Court Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  HILL, WILLIAM E., 23 Greene Street, New York City.

  HOBAN, RT. REV. M. J., D. D., Scranton, Pa., Bishop of the Roman
  Catholic diocese of Scranton.

  HOEY, JAMES J., real estate, insurance and surety bonds, 206 Broadway,
  New York City.

  HOGAN, JOHN J., Director of the Lowell Trust Company, 53 Central
  Street, Lowell, Mass.

  HOGAN, HON. JOHN W., attorney at law, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence,
  R. I.; recently a candidate for Congress; ex-member, General Assembly.

  HOLLAND, JOHN P., 11 William Street, East Orange, N. J.; inventor of
  the submarine torpedo boat.

  HORIGAN, HON. CORNELIUS, 229 and 231 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.;
  Treasurer of the Andrews & Horigan Company; a member of the
  Legislature of Maine.

  HOWLETT, JOHN, 49 Portland Street, Boston, Mass.

  HUGHES, MARTIN, attorney at law, Hibbing, Minn.

  HUGHES, PATRICK L., 466 Pleasant Street, Winthrop, Mass.

  HURLEY, JAMES H., Union Trust Company Building, Providence, R. I.;
  manager of the real estate department, G. L. & H. J. Gross.

  HURLEY, JOHN E., 63 Washington Street, Providence, R. I.;
  Vice-President and superintendent of the Remington Printing Company;
  President, in 1904, of the Rhode Island Master Printers’ Association.

  HURLEY, HON. JOHN F., Mayor of Salem, Salem, Mass.

  INND, THOMAS C., Restaurateur, 42 John Street, New York City.

  JAMESON, W. R., 1786 Bathgate Avenue, Bronx, New York City.

  JENKINSON, RICHARD C., 678 High Street, Newark, N. J.; of R. C.
  Jenkinson & Company, manufacturers of metal goods; candidate for mayor
  of Newark in 1901; was President of the Newark Board of Trade in
  1898–’99 and 1900; has been a director in the Newark Gas Company; was
  President of the New Jersey Commission to the Pan-American Exposition,
  and one of the Vice-Presidents of the Exposition, representing the
  State of New Jersey by appointment of Governor Voorhees.

  JENNINGS, MICHAEL J., 753 Third Avenue, New York City.

  JOHNSON, ALFRED J., Deputy Sheriff, 14 Central Park West, New York
  City.

  JOHNSON, JAMES G., of James G. Johnson & Company, 649, 651, 653 and
  655 Broadway, New York City.

  JORDAN, MICHAEL J., attorney at law, 42 Court Street, Boston, Mass.;
  Vice-President of the Society for Massachusetts.

  JOYCE, BERNARD J., 45 Grove Avenue, Winthrop Highlands, Boston, Mass.

  JOYCE, HENRY L., 143 Liberty Street, New York City. (Life member of
  the Society.) Manager of the Marine Department of the Central Railroad
  of New Jersey.

  JOYCE, JOHN JAY, 47 Macdougal Street, New York City.

  JOYCE, MICHAEL J., attorney at law, 51 Chambers Street, New York City;
  member of the firm of Joyce & Hoff.

  JUDGE, JOHN H., attorney at law, 259 Broadway, New York City.

  KEANE, MOST REV. JOHN J., D. D., Dubuque, Ia.; Archbishop of the Roman
  Catholic archdiocese of Dubuque.

  KEARNEY, JAMES, attorney at law, 220 Broadway, New York City.

  KEARNS, PHILIP J., 2311 Concourse, Bronx, New York City. Contractor.

  KEATING, PATRICK M., of the law firm, Keating & Brackett, Pemberton
  Building, Boston, Mass.

  KEEFE, PATRICK H., M. D., 257 Benefit Street, Providence, R. I.

  KEEFE, REV. WILLIAM A., Norwich, Conn.

  KEENAN, JOHN J., Public Library, Copley Square, Boston, Mass.

  KEENAN, THOMAS J., attorney at law, Binghamton, N. Y.; member of the
  law firm of Curtiss, Arms & Keenan.

  KEHOE, JOHN F., 26 Broadway, New York City; officially connected with
  many corporations. (Life member of the Society.)

  KELLEY, JAMES DOUGLAS JERROLD, 25 East Eighty-third Street, New York
  City; Commander, United States Navy.

  KELLEHER, DANIEL, 1116 Spring Street, Seattle, Washington; member of
  the law firm of Bausman & Kelleher, Alaska Building, Seattle, and
  director of the Seattle National Bank, Bank for Savings and State Bank
  of Seattle.

  KELLY, DANIEL E., attorney at law, Salyer Block, Valparaiso, Ind.

  KELLY, EUGENE, Templecourt Building, New York City.

  KELLY, GERTRUDE B., M. D., 130 East Twenty-seventh Street, New York
  City.

  KELLY, JOHN FORREST, PH. D., Pittsfield, Mass.; born near
  Carrick-on-Suir, Ireland. He was educated in Stevens Institute of
  Technology, Hoboken, N. J., received the degree of B. L. in 1878 and
  that of Ph. D. in 1881. His first occupation was as assistant to
  Thomas A. Edison, in Menlo Park laboratory, his work then principally
  relating to the chemistry of rare earths. Late in 1879 Mr. Kelly
  became electrical engineer of the New York branch of the Western
  Electric Company. This was the time when the telephone was being
  generally introduced, and when dynamos were being first applied to
  telegraphic purposes. In the construction and installment of
  instruments for telegraphy and telephones and of such measuring
  instruments as were then known, Mr. Kelly received a thorough
  training. In 1882 he became laboratory assistant to Edward Weston,
  then chief electrician of the United States Electric Lighting Company,
  and, with the exception of a year which he spent in connection with
  the Remingtons, Mr. Kelly continued his association with Mr. Weston
  until July, 1886. Some of the most important work, such as the
  research which ended in the discovery of high resistance alloys of
  very low or even negative temperature co-efficients, were
  substantially carried out by Mr. Kelly under general directions from
  Mr. Weston, whom Mr. Kelly succeeded as chief electrician of the
  United States Electric Lighting Company, which, in 1889, passed to the
  Westinghouse interests; but Mr. Kelly retained his position as chief
  electrician until January, 1892, when he resigned to join William
  Stanley in experimental work. The work done by Mr. Kelly, in this
  connection, gave a great impetus to the alternating current business.
  Mr. Kelly’s inventive work is partially represented by eighty patents.
  The art of building transformers and generators of alternating
  currents was revolutionized, and Mr. Kelly and his colleagues were the
  first to put polyphase motors into actual commercial service. That
  success naturally led to long-distance transmission work, and the
  first long-distance transmission plants in California (indeed the
  first in the world), were undertaken on Mr. Kelly’s recommendation and
  advice. He was the first to make a hysteretically stable steel, a
  matter of vastly more importance than the comparatively spectacular
  transmission work. Mr. Kelly at present occupies the position of
  President of the John F. Kelly Engineering Company, President of the
  Cokel Company and President of the Telelectric Company, as well as
  President of the Conchas River Power Company and director of the
  Southwestern Exploration Company. The Cokel Company is organized to
  exploit the invention of Mr. E. W. Cooke, by means of which foodstuffs
  may be perfectly dehydrated, losing on the average ninety per cent in
  weight. Foods dehydrated by this process, although free from all
  chemical preservatives, are entirely stable, and yet preserve their
  pristine freshness through extremes of temperature, and when served
  are indistinguishable from fresh foods of the ordinary type. The
  Telelectric Company is organized for the manufacture of electric piano
  players, which are either entirely automatic or entirely controllable
  at will. Mr. Kelly was married to Miss Helen Fischer, in New York
  City, in 1892, and they have two children—Eoghan and Domnall. Mr.
  Kelly is a thorough and unswerving Irish Nationalist, and his splendid
  generosity to the cause is well-known.

  KELLY, JOSEPH THOMAS, was born at Enniskeen, County Cavan, Ireland,
  January 3, 1887, and is the son of William and Anne (O’Connor) Kelly.
  Removed in August, 1893, to New Haven, Conn.; in October, 1895, to
  Union City, Conn.; in April, 1900, returned to New Haven. Educated in
  Irish National Schools and in the public and parochial schools of the
  United States; was graduated in 1903 from Hillhouse High School, New
  Haven. In July, 1903, entered the employ of the New York, New Haven
  and Hartford Railroad Company as a stenographer; and is at present
  Secretary to the general counsel of that company. Member, Loyal
  Council No. 30, Knights of Columbus. Residence, 275 Lombard Street;
  office, Law Department, N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Company, New Haven,
  Conn.

  KELLY, MICHAEL F., M. D., Fall River, Mass.

  KELLY, P. J., Vice-President of the Hans-Kelly Company, Main Street,
  Buffalo, N. Y.

  KELLY, THOMAS, M. D., 357 West Fifty-seventh Street, New York City.

  KELLY, T. P., 544 West Twenty-second Street, New York City; of T. P.
  Kelly & Company, manufacturers of black leads, foundry facings,
  supplies, etc.

  KELLY, WILLIAM J., 9 Dove Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  KELLY, WILLIAM J., insurance, 3 Market Square, Portsmouth, N. H.

  KENAH, JOHN F., city clerk, Elizabeth, N. J. Vice-President of the
  Society for New Jersey.

  KENNEDY, CHARLES F., Brewer, Me.

  KENNEDY, DANIEL, of the Kennedy Valve Manufacturing Company,
  Coxsackie, N. Y., 197 Berkeley Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  KENNEDY, HON. M. F., 32 Broad Street, Charleston, S. C., is in the
  real estate and brokerage business; was born in Charleston September
  26th, 1844, and his parents came from Tipperary, Ireland; was educated
  in the local schools; served in the Confederate Army in the War of the
  Rebellion; elected in 1882 to the South Carolina Legislature and
  re-elected in 1884, serving for four years in the House of
  Representatives; has been thirty years in the real estate and
  insurance business, commencing in 1879 with his brother, Patrick H.
  Kennedy, since deceased. Is Secretary and Treasurer of the Hibernian
  Mutual Insurance Company, and is a member of the Ancient Order of
  Hibernians, the Hibernian Society of Charleston, St. Patrick’s
  Benevolent Society, Supreme Lodge of the Knights of Honor, Supreme
  Lodge of the Catholic Knights of America, ex-Grand Dictator of the
  Grand Lodge of South Carolina Knights of Honor, and Grand Master
  Workman of the Ancient Order of United Workmen of the Carolinas,
  Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida. Mr. Kennedy was also a
  member of the great Land League Congress, held at Philadelphia in
  1882, and acted on most of the important committees, representing the
  local organizations of Charleston.

  KENNEY, DAVID T., mechanical engineer, Plainfield, N. J.

  KENNEY, JAMES W., Park Brewery, Terrace Street, Roxbury, Mass.;
  Vice-President and director, Federal Trust Company, Boston, Mass.

  KENNEY, JOHN J., attorney at law; born in New York City, March 2,
  1858; son of Patrick and Mary (Hogan) Kenney; educated in the public
  schools and private schools of Staten Island and New York City Law
  School of New York University; married in New Brighton, Staten Island,
  September 6, 1893, Anna H. Crabtree; children: Mary Mildred (12); Anna
  Ruth (10). Served seven years as justice of the Municipal Court of the
  City of New York; now district attorney of Richmond County. President
  of the New Brighton Co-operative Savings and Loan Association;
  director of the Richmond County Agricultural Society; Democrat. Roman
  Catholic. Address, New Brighton, Staten Island, N. Y.

  KENNEY, THOMAS, 143 Summer Street, Worcester, Mass.

  KENNEY, THOMAS F., M. D., formerly of Vienna, Austria, 9 High Street,
  Worcester, Mass. Vice-President of the Society for Austria.

  KENNY, W. J. K., 44 Broad Street, New York City.

  KEOUGH, PETER L., 41 Arch Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  KERBY, JOHN E., architect, 481 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

  KERWIN, GEN. MICHAEL, United States Pension Agent, New York City,
  residence, Broadway Central Hotel.

  KIERNAN, PATRICK, 265 West Forty-third Street, New York City.

  KIGGEN, JOHN A., 125 West Street, Hyde Park, Mass.

  KILKENNY, THOMAS F., 43 Sabin Street, Providence, R. I., manager of
  Capron Company, manufacturing jewellers; residence, East Greenwich, R.
  I.

  KILROY, PHILIP, M. D., Springfield, Mass.

  KINSLEY, WILLIAM JOSEPH, son of Thomas and Mary (Hughes) Kinsley; born
  Blackstone, Worcester County, Mass., Aug. 27, 1865; educated in public
  schools of Worcester County, Mass., and Woonsocket, R. I., and
  Providence Bryant & Stratton Business College, and the National
  College of Commerce, Philadelphia. From 1885 to 1901 he taught
  penmanship, commercial branches, correspondence, commercial law, etc.,
  in Eastman College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and the Western Normal
  College, Shenandoah, Iowa. In 1891 was a partner in the shoe
  manufacturing business of H. J. Putnam & Company, Minneapolis, Minn.;
  1892–4, Secretary and Treasurer of the Western Normal College,
  Lincoln, Neb.; 1894–1901, editor of _Penman’s Art Journal_, New York,
  and since 1894 expert in questioned documents—handwriting,
  typewriting, ink and paper. He has had 900 cases in 27 states of the
  United States, and in Canada, among the more famous being the
  Molineaux, Dr. Kennedy and Patrick murder cases in New York, Tucker
  murder case in Cambridge, Mass., Hutchinson will case in New Orleans,
  Davis will case in San Francisco. In 1895 Mr. Kinsley was President of
  the Western Penmen’s Association, a national organization meeting that
  year in Chicago; 1897–9, he was President of the New York Commercial
  Teachers’ Association. He is a poultry and pigeon fancier and
  prominent exhibitor at the leading shows. He is Vice-President of the
  International Carneau (Pigeon) Association, and Secretary-Treasurer of
  the American Pigmy Pouter (Pigeon) Association. With his wife (nee
  Elvira Gertrude Rose) and two children, he lives in a charming home in
  Nutley, N. J., a beautiful suburb of New York.

  KINSELA, JOHN F., 509 Gorham Street, Lowell, Mass.

  KNIGHTS OF ST. PATRICK, San Francisco, Cal. (Life membership.) Care of
  John Mulhern, Twenty-fifth and Hampshire streets, San Francisco.

  LAMSON, COL. DANIEL S., Weston, Mass.; Lieutenant-Colonel commanding
  Sixteenth Regiment (Mass.), 1861; A. A. G., Norfolk, 1862; served on
  staff of General Hooker; is a member of the Society of Colonial Wars,
  Sons of the American Revolution, and Military Order of the Loyal
  Legion; one of his ancestors landed at Ipswich, Mass., in 1632, and
  received a grant of 350 acres; another ancestor, Samuel, of Reading,
  Mass., participated in King Philip’s War and had a son in the
  expedition of 1711. Another member of the family, Samuel of Weston,
  commanded a company at Concord, Mass., April 19, 1775, and was major
  and colonel of the Third Middlesex Regiment for many years, dying in
  1795.

  LANNON, JOSEPH F., of Jos. F. Lannon & Company, general merchandise,
  68 Main Street, Susquehanna, Pa.

  LAVELLE, JOHN, Inquiry Division, Postoffice, 3148 West Forty-fourth
  Street, S. W., Cleveland, O. Vice-President of the Society for Ohio.

  LAWLER, JAMES G., manager American Car & Foundry Company, St. Charles,
  Mo.

  LAWLER, JOHN F., City Sergeant, Norfolk, Va.

  LAWLER, JOSEPH A., 308 West Fourteenth Street, New York City.

  LAWLER, THOMAS B., 70 Fifth Avenue, New York City; of Ginn & Company,
  publishers; member of the American Oriental Society and of the
  Archæological Society of America; Librarian and Archivist of the
  Society.

  LAWLESS, HON. JOSEPH T., attorney at law, Norfolk, Va.; recently
  Secretary of State, Virginia; now a colonel on the staff of the
  governor of Virginia.

  LAWLOR, THOMAS F., attorney at law, 65 Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  LEAHY, JOHN S., attorney at law, 807 Carleton Building, St. Louis, Mo.

  LEAHY, MATTHEW W., 257 Franklin Street, New Haven, Conn.

  LEARY, JEREMIAH D., 131 Clark Place, Elizabeth, N. J.

  LEE, HON. LAWRENCE P., was born in Dublin, Ireland, March 17, 1860;
  graduated from St. Johns College, Fordham, N. Y., in 1886, with the
  degree of Bachelor of Arts. In 1892 the College of St. Francis Xavier,
  New York City, conferred on him the degree of Master of Arts;
  Treasurer of the U. S. Immigration Service, Ellis Island, since 1895.
  Resides 348 West Twentieth Street, New York City.

  LEE, HON. THOMAS Z., of the law firm of Barney & Lee, Industrial Trust
  Building, Providence, R. I.; Secretary-General of the Society.

  LENEHAN, REV. B. C., V. G., Fort Dodge, Iowa.

  LENEHAN, JOHN J., of the law firm Lenehan & Dowley, 71 Nassau Street,
  New York City. (Life member of the Society.) Chairman Committee on
  Membership and member of Executive Council.

  LENIHAN, RT. REV. M. C., Bishop of the Roman Catholic diocese of Great
  Falls, Mont. Vice-President of the Society for Montana.

  LENNOX, GEORGE W., manufacturer, Haverhill, Mass.

  LEONARD, PETER F., 343 Harvard Street, Cambridge, Mass.

  LESLIE, CHARLES J., attorney at law, 566 West One Hundred and
  Sixty-first Street, New York City.

  LESLIE, WARREN, attorney at law, 165 Broadway, New York City.

  LINEHAN, REV. T. P., Biddeford, Me.

  LONERGAN, THOMAS S., 408 East One Hundred and Forty-ninth Street, New
  York City, was born in Mitchelstown, Ireland, in the year 1864. He
  received his early educational training from the Christian Brothers in
  his native town and at St. Colman’s College, Fermoy. From early
  boyhood he exhibited tokens of more than ordinary talents. He was fond
  of books, particularly those on ancient and modern history, literature
  and biography. He is today probably one of the best read men in
  Anglo-Irish literature and Irish history in America; but he is by no
  means less informed on the history, literature and politics of his
  adopted country, for he is an American to the very backbone, and is
  proud of his citizenship. He came to America in 1883, and lost no time
  in becoming a full-fledged American citizen, immediately after which
  he affiliated himself with the Democratic party. He had only been a
  citizen two weeks when, during the presidential campaign of 1888, he
  was placed on the list of campaign speakers by the Democratic State
  Committee of New York. In the early nineties, he was an expert debater
  in the leading literary societies of New York. Previous to that, he
  was a member of the Young Men’s Congress of Boston. He is also a
  writer and lecturer of ability. His lectures on “Christian Education,”
  “The Golden Age of Ireland,” “Charles Carroll, of Carrollton,” “The
  American Stage,” “General Thomas Francis Meagher,” “Irishmen in the
  American Revolution,” “Jefferson and Lincoln,” “The Catholic Chapter
  in American History,” “The Irish Renaissance,” “St. Brendan, America’s
  First Discoverer,” “Christian Democracy,” “Wendell Phillips,”
  “Socialism and Individualism” and “Newfoundland and Her People,” are
  masterpieces. His eulogy on Leo XIII is a classic. Mr. Lonergan has
  been with the _New York World_ for the past fifteen years, and is at
  present manager of the Bronx office. He possesses not only literary
  but executive abilities of a high order. During his residence in the
  Bronx he has made hosts of friends and is well liked by all with whom
  he comes in contact.

  LOUGHLIN, PETER J., 150 Nassau Street, New York City.

  LOVELL, DAVID B., M. D., 32 Pearl Street, Worcester, Mass.

  LUDDY, TIMOTHY F., Waterbury, Conn.

  LYNCH, EUGENE, 24 India Street, Boston, Mass.

  LYNCH, JOHN E., school principal, Worcester, Mass.

  LYNCH, J. H., 812 Eighth Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  LYNCH, THOMAS J., attorney at law, Augusta, Me.; was city clerk of
  Augusta, 1884 and 1885; postmaster of Augusta from 1894 to 1898; and
  trustee of the Public Library; one of the water commissioners; a
  director of the Granite National Bank; trustee of the Kennebec Savings
  Bank; trustee of the Augusta Trust Company; President of the Augusta
  Loan & Building Association; director of the Augusta, Winthrop &
  Gardiner Railway; director of the Augusta Real Estate Association; and
  trustee of many estates. Is a member of the Executive Council of the
  Society.

  LYNN, JOHN, 48 Bond Street, New York City.

  LYNN, HON. WAUHOPE, a justice of the Municipal Court of the city of
  New York, 257 Broadway, New York City.

  LYON, JAMES B., President of the J. B. Lyon Company, printers,
  publishers, and book manufacturers, Albany, N. Y.

  LYONS, RICHARD J., merchant, 39 Union Square West, New York City.

  LYONS, WILLIAM, merchant, 25 Hillside Street, Boston, Mass. (Life
  member of the Society.)

  MACDONNELL, JOHN T. F., paper manufacturer, Holyoke, Mass.

  MACDWYER, PATRICK S., attorney at law, 229 Broadway, New York City.

  MACGUIRE, CONSTANTINE J., 120 East Sixtieth Street, New York City.

  MACK, JAMES F., Attorney-at-Law, New York City.

  MACLAY, EDGAR STANTON, author and editor, _Standard Union_, Brooklyn,
  N. Y.

  MCADOO, HON. WILLIAM, 30 Broad Street, New York City, recently police
  commissioner of the City of New York; ex-member of Congress;
  ex-assistant Secretary of the Navy. Is a member of the Executive
  Council of the Society.

  MCALEENAN, ARTHUR, 131 West Sixty-ninth Street, New York City.

  MCALEENAN, HENRY, broker, 1330 Broadway, New York City.

  MCALEER, GEORGE, M. D., Worcester, Mass.

  MCALEVY, JOHN F., salesman, 26–50 North Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  MCALISTER, JOHN, 165 Meeting Street, Charleston, S. C., proprietor of
  livery stable.

  MCBREEN, PATRICK FRANCIS, printer, publisher; born in Ireland in 1843;
  son of Michael M. and Catherine E. (Conaty) McBreen; educated in
  private school; married in Brooklyn, 1870, to Elizabeth A. Wilker;
  children: Francis P., Raymond J., Katherine E., Elizabeth A.;
  commenced printing business in New York City in 1872; established
  partnership of P. F. McBreen & Sons in 1898, and incorporated same in
  1900; since then has been President, also Secretary, of the Club
  Publishing Company; member of General Society of Mechanics and
  Tradesmen; also a member of Traveling Club and New York Press;
  address, 404 Monroe Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  MCBRIDE, D. H., 10 Barclay Street, New York City.

  MCCAFFREY, HUGH, manufacturer and President of the McCaffrey File
  Company, Fifth and Berks streets, Philadelphia, Pa. (Life member of
  the Society.) Vice-President of the Society for Pennsylvania and
  member of many Catholic organizations.

  MCCALE, JAMES, attorney at law, Bracewell Block, Dover, N. H.

  MCCALL, HON. EDWARD E., County Court House, Chambers Street, New York
  City, is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
  (Life member of the Society.)

  MCCANNA, FRANCIS I., attorney at law, member of the firm of Barney &
  Lee, Industrial Trust Building, Providence, R. I.

  MCCARRICK, JAMES W., general southern agent, Clyde Steamship Company,
  Norfolk, Va. Mr. McCarrick is a veteran of the Civil War. He was
  transferred, 1861, from Twelfth Virginia Regiment to North Carolina
  gunboat _Winslow_, and appointed master’s mate. Transferred to
  Confederate navy with that steamer, and ordered to Confederate steamer
  _Seabird_, at Norfolk navy yard. Attached to _Seabird_ until latter
  was sunk. Taken prisoner, Elizabeth City, N. C. Paroled February,
  1862. Exchanged for officer of similar rank captured from United
  States ship _Congress_. Promoted to master and ordered to navy yard,
  Selma, Ala. Served later on Confederate steamships _Tuscaloosa_,
  _Baltic_ and _Tennessee_ at Mobile, and in Mobile Bay, and on steamer
  _Macon_, at Savannah, and on Savannah River. Detailed to command water
  battery at Shell Bluff, below Augusta, after surrender of Savannah.
  Paroled from steamship _Macon_ at Augusta, Ga., after Johnson’s
  surrender. Mr. McCarrick is President of the Virginia State Board of
  Pilot Commissioners; President of the Board of Trade of Norfolk, Va.;
  first Vice-President of the Virginia Navigation Company; commissioner
  representing the State of Virginia in the management of the Jamestown
  Exposition; and was President of the Suburban & City Railway and
  chairman of the executive committee of the Norfolk Street Railway
  until these two properties were consolidated and sold to outside
  parties. Vice-President for Virginia.

  MCCARTY, T. J., 20 George Street, Charleston, S. C.

  MCCARTHY, CHARLES, JR., Portland, Me.

  MCCARTHY, GEORGE W., of Dennett & McCarthy, dry goods, Portsmouth, N.
  H.

  MCCARTHY, JAMES, _Lawrence Telegram_, Lawrence, Mass.

  MCCARTHY, M. R. F., 82 Court Street, Binghamton, N. Y.; a commissioner
  of the department of Public Instruction.

  MCCARTHY, HON. PATRICK JOSEPH, Mayor of the city of Providence, R. I.,
  1907 and 1908. Was born in County Sligo, Ireland, 1848, and was about
  two years of age when his parents, Patrick and Alice (Cullen)
  McCarthy, crossed the ocean. But they were destined to never reach the
  mainland of free America, for both father and mother died while
  waiting in quarantine, at Deer Island, Boston Harbor. Patrick J. was
  the youngest of seven sons. He became the ward of a society connected
  with the Catholic Cathedral in Boston, and remained with this society
  until he was eight years old. During this time he attended the public
  schools. Winters of following years, until he was fourteen, he
  attended day school in Somerville, Mass., and night school at
  Cambridge. About this time Professor Charles Elliot Norton, and some
  of his college associates, one of whom was Charles William Eliot,
  ex-President of Harvard University, organized a night school in old
  Cambridge for working boys, and admitted boys residing in Somerville.
  Advantage of this opportunity was taken and whenever speaking of this
  period of his life, Mayor McCarthy expresses his admiration and
  gratitude for Professor Norton. It was this association with true men
  that did more to mould his character and direct his mind and thoughts
  in the right direction than any other influence of his youth. In 1863
  he removed to Providence, and while making his home with his brother
  learned the trade of brass finisher. His ambition was to become master
  of a business on his own account, and encouraged by a few successful
  ventures in real estate, determined to qualify himself for business in
  a proper manner. Realizing that a knowledge of law would be of great
  advantage to him, he read and studied Blackstone’s and Kent’s
  Commentaries on Law and made up his mind to choose law as a profession
  instead of engaging in business, and after suitable preparation
  entered the Law School of Harvard University. His accumulated savings
  supported him during the time of the course of study, and he graduated
  with the degree of LL. B. in 1876. Returning to Providence, Mr.
  McCarthy was admitted to the Bar of Rhode Island. He was soon
  possessed of a good clientage, and later was admitted to the Circuit
  Court and Supreme Court of the United States. Being an ardent reader
  and endowed with histrionic ability, the stage appealed to him, and
  his evenings were spent in the congenial society of those interested
  in amateur theatricals, Shakespearian readings, etc., and
  notwithstanding his preference for serious characters, was frequently
  cast for the comedian’s part. In 1875 he married Miss Anne M.
  McGinney, of Providence, but this happy union was of short duration,
  as she died in 1880, leaving one of three children, Mary Josephine,
  wife of William H. Bannon, of Central Falls, R. I., surviving her.
  Although a Democrat, Mr. McCarthy has always been a firm believer in
  the principles of equitable protection, reciprocity and sound money.
  He was frequently urged to accept nomination for various public
  offices, but persistently declined until the fall of 1889, when he was
  nominated on a fusion ticket and elected to the Providence City
  Council, where he served during the years 1890–1892 and 1894. In 1891,
  1892 and 1903 he was elected to the House of Representatives of Rhode
  Island, and made a good record in the Legislature. He was opposed to
  granting special privileges to public service corporations without
  adequate compensation to the public for franchises in public highways.
  In November, 1906, he was elected Mayor of the city of Providence, and
  the best tribute to his first year’s record in that office is that he
  was re-elected in 1907 by a greatly increased plurality. While Mayor
  McCarthy is a firm believer in the principles of Democracy and
  appreciative of the honors the Democratic party has conferred on him,
  he has always felt it to be his first duty to observe the wishes of
  the people as a whole, rather than those of a party or faction. He has
  been fearless in his disregard of partisanship and has won the respect
  and admiration of all good citizens by his official acts as Mayor. Mr.
  McCarthy is a many-sided man. As an official he is conspicuously
  successful. He has always represented the whole people, and never
  attempted to gain favor by the sacrifice of principle. He is a sound
  lawyer, enjoying the respect of the Court and the confidence of his
  clients. Better than that, he is a true friend, warm-hearted,
  clear-headed and helpful, and a loyal, patriotic American citizen.
  Address, 49 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I. Is Vice-President of
  the Society for Rhode Island.

  MCCARTHY, REV. THOMAS J., chancellor of the Diocese of Sioux City,
  1011 Douglas Street, Sioux City, Iowa.

  MCCAUGHAN, REV. JOHN P., St. Paul’s Church, Warren, Mass.

  MCCAUGHEY, BERNARD, of Bernard McCaughey & Company, house furnishers,
  Pawtucket, R. I.

  MCCLEAN, REV. PETER H., Milford, Conn.

  MCCLOUD, WILLIAM J., contractor, Jefferson Avenue, Elizabeth, N. J.

  MCCLURE, HON. DAVID, attorney at law, 22 William Street, New York
  City. Mr. McClure was admitted to the bar in December, 1869, in New
  York City, where he has since resided. His practice has brought him
  very prominently before the courts and public during the last
  thirty-six years as counsel in cases which have attracted much
  attention. He has been counsel in many contested will cases, including
  those of Merrill, Schuyler Skatts, Charles B. Beck and Mary Johnson.
  In the Livingston, De Meli and General Burnside litigation he was also
  prominent. He has been connected with many large corporation
  foreclosure suits, including those of the Denver Water Company, the
  New York & Northern Railroad Company, Omaha Water Company, the Toledo,
  Ann Arbor & Northern Michigan, the Northern Pacific, the New York,
  Lake Erie & Western, the Oregon Railway & Navigation Company, the
  Oregon Improvement Company, the Chicago & Northern Pacific Company,
  the Bankers and Merchants’ Telegraph Company, and the Memphis &
  Charleston Railroad Company. He is regarded as one of the most
  successful trial lawyers at the bar in New York. Mr. McClure for more
  than a quarter of a century has been counsel for the Farmers Loan &
  Trust Company, the oldest and largest trust company in the United
  States, organized in 1821; and for many years of the Consolidated Gas
  Company, one of the largest public service corporations in the
  country. He is also counsel for the West Side Savings Bank, several
  fire insurance companies and other banks. He was one of the counsel
  for the Mutual Life Insurance Company during the presidency of F. S.
  Winston. For years he was a director in the Lawyers Surety Company,
  and he is on the board of the Title Insurance Company of New York. He
  was a prominent and active member of the State Constitution Convention
  of 1894, in which body he introduced and carried through the amendment
  providing for protection of the forests of New York. He years ago
  declined elevation to the bench of the Court of Appeals, the highest
  court in the state of New York, and several times to other positions;
  also appointment to the offices of corporation counsel of the city of
  New York, and district attorney of the United States. Mr. McClure was
  appointed, in 1893, receiver of the National Bank of Deposit, in the
  city of New York, and in spite of the stringent financial condition
  which prevailed during the summer of that year, dividends aggregating
  seventy-five per cent were paid within three months. The entire
  indebtedness, principal and interest, was paid and the receivership
  closed out within one year. In 1892 he was a delegate from the State
  of New York to the National Democratic Convention which, at Chicago,
  nominated Grover Cleveland as candidate for the office of President of
  the United States, and during the campaign of that year he was much
  discussed by the press of New York as the probable nominee of his
  party for the office of Mayor of the city. In that year he was
  designated by the General Term of the Supreme Court, chairman of the
  first commission appointed to determine whether a subway passing under
  Broadway and other streets through the city should be constructed, his
  associates being Robert Maclay, President of the Knickerbocker Trust
  Company, and Benjamin Perkins. Prior to the adoption by the United
  States government of the Panama Canal project, and during the
  Presidency of Mr. McKinley, one of the largest, if not the largest,
  syndicates of moneyed men ever gathered together obtained a concession
  from the government of Nicaragua for the construction of a canal known
  as the Nicaragua Canal. This syndicate, which proposed to build the
  canal without government aid, was composed of the Messrs. Vanderbilt,
  Astor, Rockefeller, Mills, Stillman, Grace, Crimmins, and others of
  equal standing, and was represented before the committee of Congress
  upon the question of recognition and protection, by Mr. McClure as its
  counsel, he having organized the corporation under which it was
  proposed to operate. Mr. McClure is a member of the Manhattan, New
  York Athletic and other clubs, and the Bar Association, of which he
  has been a member of the judiciary and other committees. He has also
  been honored with the presidency of the Metropolitan Surety Company.

  MCCONWAY, WILLIAM, of the McConway & Torley Company, Pittsburg, Pa.
  (Life member of the Society.)

  MCCORMICK, EDWARD R., 15 West Thirty-eighth Street, New York City.

  MCCORMICK, JAMES W., of the Judkins & McCormick Company, importers of
  millinery goods, 10–16 West Twentieth Street, New York City;
  residence, 79 New England Avenue, Summit, N. J.

  MCCOY, REV. JOHN J., LL. D., rector, St. Ann’s Church, Worcester,
  Mass. Is a member of the Executive Council of the Society.

  MCCOY, WILLIAM J., attorney and counsellor at law, 37 Virginia Avenue,
  Indianapolis, Ind.

  MCCREADY, RT. REV. MGR. CHARLES, 329 West Forty-second Street, New
  York City.

  MCCULLOUGH, JOHN, 55 Maxfield Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  MCDONALD, CAPT. MITCHELL C., a pay director in the navy; formerly
  stationed at the Naval Home in Philadelphia; Navy Department,
  Washington, D. C.

  MCDONNELL, ROBERT E., attorney at law, 52 Broadway, New York City.

  MCDONOUGH, HON. JOHN J., Fall River, Mass.; Justice of the Second
  District Court of Bristol County, Mass.

  MCFARLAND, STEPHEN, Secretary of the Central Cigar Manufacturing
  Company; residence, 44 Morton Street, New York City.

  MCGANN, JAMES A., 413 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., was born
  August 5th, 1855, in Roscrea, Tipperary County, Ireland, and arrived
  in Philadelphia when eight years of age. Is with Prevost & Herring in
  the insurance business.

  MCGANN, JAMES E., real estate, 902 Chapel Street, New Haven, Conn.

  MCGANN, COL. JAMES H., 7 Kepler Street, Providence, R. I.

  MCGAURAN, MICHAEL S., M. D., 258 Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  MCGILLICUDDY, HON. D. J., of the law firm McGillicuddy & Morey,
  Lewiston, Me.; ex-Mayor of Lewiston.

  MCGINNESS, BRIG.-GEN. JOHN R., U. S. A., retired, Union Club,
  Cleveland, Ohio; born in Ireland; cadet at United States Military
  Academy, July 1, 1859; first lieutenant of ordnance, June 11, 1863;
  captain, February 10, 1869; major, June 1, 1881; lieutenant-colonel,
  July 7, 1898; colonel, June 14, 1892; retired with the rank of
  brigadier-general, September 17, 1904.

  MCGINNIS, D. J., Astor Place, New York City.

  MCGOLRICK, REV. E. J., 84 Herbert Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  MCGOLRICK, RT. REV. JAMES, D. D., bishop of the Roman Catholic diocese
  of Duluth, Minn. (Life member of the Society.)

  MCGOVERN, JAMES, 6 Wall Street, New York City; of Benedict, Drysdale &
  Company. (Life member of the Society.)

  MCGOVERN, JOSEPH P., Treasurer the Hatters’ Fair Exchange
  Incorporated, the American Hatters and Furriers’ Corporation and the
  Connecticut Glue Company, Incorporated, 23–29 Washington Place, New
  York City.

  MCGOWAN, REAR ADMIRAL JOHN, U. S. N., retired, 1420 Sixteenth Street,
  N. W., Washington, D. C. (Life member of the Society.) He was born at
  Port Penn, Del., August 4, 1843. He is the son of John and Catherine
  (Caldwell) McGowan. He was educated in the public schools of
  Philadelphia, Pa., 1848–’53, and in private schools in Elizabeth, N.
  J., 1854–’59. Entering the navy, he was appointed acting master’s
  mate, March 8, 1862; was promoted to acting master May 8, 1862, and
  ordered to command the U. S. S. _Wyandank_ in the Potomac flotilla. He
  served on the Potomac and Rappahannock rivers until February, 1863,
  when he was detached from the _Wyandank_ and ordered to the _Florida_
  as navigator. He served on the _Florida_ in the blockage off
  Wilmington, N. C., until October, 1864, when the ship went to New York
  for repairs. In November, of the same year, he was detached from the
  _Florida_ and ordered to the U. S. S. _State of Georgia_ as navigator;
  arrived off Wilmington, N. C., the day after the capture of Fort
  Fisher, his ship being then ordered to reinforce the fleet off
  Charleston, S. C. While there he took part in the Bulls Bay
  Expedition, which was one of the causes of the evacuation of
  Charleston by the Confederates. Soon after the evacuation, the _State
  of Georgia_ was ordered to Aspinwall (Colon) to protect American
  interests on the Isthmus of Panama. Before sailing for Aspinwall,
  McGowan succeeded Lieutenant Manly as executive officer of the ship.
  In November, 1865, he was ordered to the U. S. S. _Monongahela_ as
  watch and division officer; served on the _Monongahela_ in the West
  Indies until January, 1867, when he was detached and, a few days
  later, joined the U. S. S. _Tacony_, Commander Roe, fitting out for
  duty in the Gulf Squadron. He was at Vera Cruz nearly all the summer
  of 1867, which witnessed the fall of Maximilian’s empire. After the
  death of Maximilian, and the surrender of Vera Cruz to the Liberals,
  the _Tacony_ returned to Pensacola, Fla., but, yellow fever breaking
  out aboard, the ship went to Portsmouth, N. H., where, after
  undergoing quarantine, the officers were detached and ordered to their
  homes the latter part of September, 1867. In October of the same year,
  McGowan was ordered to duty on board the receiving-ship at the
  Philadelphia navy yard. He commanded the U. S. S. _Constellation_
  there, and was afterward executive officer of the frigate _Potomac_,
  also a receiving ship, at Philadelphia. In March, 1868, while on the
  _Potomac_, he received a commission as master in the regular navy, and
  in October, 1868, was ordered to duty with the Asiatic fleet. On
  reporting to the admiral, he was ordered to duty as executive officer
  of the U. S. S. _Unadilla_; succeeded to the command of the _Unadilla_
  in June, 1869, and in November of that year was detached from the
  _Unadilla_ and ordered to the U. S. S. _Iroquois_; returned in her to
  the United States, the ship going out of commission in April, 1870. In
  April, 1870, he was promoted to be lieutenant-commander and while in
  that grade served on the double-turreted monitor _Terror_, the
  _Wachusetts_, _Juniata_ and _Marion_ as executive officer, and at the
  League Island, Philadelphia and Brooklyn navy yards. In January, 1887,
  he was promoted to commander; commanded the _Swatara_, _St. Mary’s_,
  _Portsmouth_ and _Alliance_, and was also commandant of the naval
  training station at Newport, R. I., from December, 1896, to July,
  1899. He was promoted captain, February, 1899, and in August took
  command of the U. S. S. _Monadnock_ at Manila. In November, 1900, he
  was ordered to duty as commandant of the naval station at Key West,
  Fla. In April, 1901, he was detached and ordered before the
  retiring-board. He was retired, with the rank of rear admiral, in
  April, 1901. In October, 1871, he wedded Evelyn Manderson of
  Philadelphia. Admiral McGowan is a member of the military order of the
  Loyal Legion, of the Order of Foreign Wars, the Sons of the
  Revolution, and of the Society of Marine Engineers and Naval
  Architects. He is also a member of the following clubs: Metropolitan
  and Chevy Chase of Washington, D. C.; Rittenhouse of Philadelphia,
  Union of New York, and New York Yacht Club. Admiral McGowan’s father,
  Capt. John McGowan, was appointed a lieutenant in the revenue cutter
  service by President Andrew Jackson. He was at Charleston, S. C.,
  during the nullification period, served in the Seminole War, in the
  War with Mexico, and in the Civil War. He commanded the steamer _Star
  of the West_ in the attempt to reinforce Fort Sumter in 1861. He died
  January, 1891, aged 85 years. President-General of the Society for two
  terms.

  MCGOWAN, PATRICK F., manufacturer, 224 East Twelfth Street, New York
  City. (Life member of the Society.) President of the Board of
  Aldermen. Born in Lebanon, Conn., in 1852; went to New York City in
  1877 and subsequently engaged in the manufacturing business, in which
  he is still interested. On January 1, 1900, was appointed by Mayor Van
  Wyck as a commissioner of education for a term of three years;
  appointed by Mayor McClellan as a commissioner of education, July 12,
  1904, to fill the unexpired term of President H. A. Rogers, and while
  serving in that capacity was, in 1905, elected President of the Board
  of Aldermen for the term expiring January 1, 1910. Mr. McGowan is
  active in a number of benevolent and fraternal societies. He was a
  supreme representative of the Royal Arcanum and supreme councilor of
  the Loyal Association. He is a member of the Manhattan Club, of the
  Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and of the Pensacola Club, of the
  Fourteenth Assembly District, where he resides. He is a trustee in St.
  Ann’s Roman Catholic Church, New York Polyclinic Hospital and the West
  Side Savings Bank.

  MCGUIRE, HON. EDWARD J., attorney at law, 52 Wall Street, New York
  City. Member of the Executive Council of the Society.

  MCGUIRE, JAMES K., 30 Church Street, New York City, with the Barber
  Asphalt Paving Company.

  MCGUIRE, JOHN C., attorney at law, Hotel St. George, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  MCGURRIN, F. E., of F. E. McGurrin & Company, investment bankers.
  Security Trust Building, Salt Lake City, Utah; President of the Salt
  Lake Security & Trust Company.

  MCISAAC, DANIEL V., 416 Old South Building, Boston, Mass.

  MCINTYRE, HON. JOHN F., of the law firm of Cantor, Adams & McIntyre,
  25 Broad Street, New York City.

  MCKENNA, JAMES A., 125 West Seventieth Street, New York City.

  MCLAUGHLIN, HENRY V., M. D., 40 Kent Street, Brookline, Mass.

  MCLAUGHLIN, JOHN, builder, 346 East Eighty-first Street, New York
  City.

  MCLAUGHLIN, MARCUS J., 250 West Twenty-fifth Street, New York City.

  MCLAUGHLIN, THOMAS F., 19 East Eighty-seventh Street, New York City.

  MCLOUGHLIN, JOSEPH F. (Life member of the Society.) 2 Rector Street,
  New York City.

  MCMAHON, JAMES, 51 Chambers Street, New York City.

  MCMAHON, REV. JOHN W., D. D., rector of St. Mary’s Church,
  Charlestown, Mass.

  MCMANN, HENRY W., 104 John Street, New York City.

  MCMANUS, JAMES H., 42 West Twenty-eighth Street, New York City.

  MCMANUS, COL. JOHN, 87 Dorrance Street, Providence, R. I.; was
  appointed colonel of the Rhode Island Guards Regiment by Governor Van
  Zandt, in 1887; was one of the commissioners to revise the militia
  laws of the state; aide-de-camp, with the rank of colonel, on the
  staff of Governor Davis of Rhode Island; has been prominently
  identified with all movements for the betterment of Ireland—his native
  land; is of the firm of John McManus & Company, merchant tailors of
  Providence. Member of the Executive Council of the Society.

  MCMANUS, MICHAEL, of McManus & Company, clothiers, Fall River, Mass.

  MCMANUS, REV. MICHAEL A., St. Aloysius Rectory, 66 Bowery Street,
  Newark, N. J. Father McManus was born in Paterson, N. J., September
  29, 1849; attended St. John’s Parish school, from whence he went to
  St. Charles College, Ellicott City, September, 1866. In 1868 began
  philosophical and theological course at Seton Hall College, South
  Orange, N. J., and was ordained a priest April 26, 1874. For the last
  17 years he has been in his present charge.

  MCMANUS, REV. MICHAEL T., rector of St. Mary’s Church of the
  Assumption, Brookline, Mass.

  MCMULLEN, JOHN R., attorney at law, 120 West Fifty-ninth Street, New
  York City.

  MCNAMARA, THOMAS CHARLES, M. D., 613 Hudson Street, Hoboken, N. J.

  MCOWEN, ANTHONY, 724 East Twenty-ninth Street, New York City.

  MCPARTLAND, JOHN E., 29 Park Street, New Haven, Conn.

  MCPARTLAND, STEPHEN, 134 West Ninety-second Street, New York City.
  Merchant.

  MCPARTLAND, STEPHEN J., 391 West End Avenue, New York City. Merchant.

  MCQUADE, E. A., 75–77 Market Street, Lowell, Mass.

  MCQUAID, REV. WILLIAM P., rector of St. James’ Church, Harrison
  Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  MCSWEENEY, EDWARD F., _Evening Traveler_, Summer Street, Boston, Mass.

  MCWALTERS, JOHN P., 141 Broadway, New York City.

  MAGRANE, P. B., dry goods merchant, Lynn, Mass.; President of the
  James A. Houston Company, Boston.

  MAGRATH, PATRICK F., 244 Front Street, Binghamton, N. Y. (Life member
  of the Society and a member of its Executive Council.)

  MAGUIRE, P. J., 223 Third Avenue, New York City.

  MAHER, STEPHEN J., M. D., 212 Orange Street, New Haven, Conn.

  MAHONEY, DANIEL S., 277 Broadway, New York City. Vice-President of the
  Catholic Times Publishing Company.

  MAHONEY, E. S., Portsmouth, Va., Director Bank of Portsmouth.

  MAHONY, WILLIAM H., dry goods, 844 Eighth Avenue, New York City. (Life
  member of the Society.)

  MALLOY, GEN. A. G., San Marcos, San Diego County, California, formerly
  of El Paso, Texas, and Vice-President of the Society for that state; a
  veteran of the Mexican and Civil wars; during the latter conflict he
  was successively major, colonel and brigadier-general; has been
  collector of the port of Galveston.

  MALONEY, CORNELIUS, publisher of the _Daily Democrat_, 71 Grand
  Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  MALONEY, JOHN H., 1619 Greene Street, Harrisburg, Pa.; real estate and
  insurance.

  MALONEY, THOMAS E., M. D., North Main Street, Fall River, Mass.

  MARSHALL, REV. GEORGE F., rector of St. Paul’s Church, Milford, N. H.

  MARTIN, HON. JAMES J., 132 West Forty-eighth Street, New York City;
  city chamberlain of New York City; formerly police commissioner;
  member Manhattan Club and other organizations.

  MARTIN, HON. JOHN B., penal institutions commissioner, 762 Fourth
  Street, South Boston, Mass.

  MARTIN, PATRICK, 3396 East Street, San Diego, California. Merchant.

  MAYNES, MICHAEL, Jefferson House, Boston, Mass.

  MEADE, RICHARD W., 216 East Seventy-second Street, New York City; son
  of the first President-General of the Society.

  MEAGHER, FREDERICK J., attorney at law, Binghamton, N. Y.

  MOLONEY, FRED G., Ottawa, Ill.

  MOLONEY, HON. MAURICE T., attorney at law, rooms 513–515 Moloney
  Building, Ottawa, Ill. He is a native of County Kerry, Ireland; came
  to the United States in 1867; graduated in law from the University of
  Virginia, class of 1871; admitted to the Virginia bar; removed to
  Illinois and was admitted to the bar of that State; served as city
  attorney of Ottawa, Ill., in 1879–’80 and 1881; was elected State’s
  attorney in 1884 and served four years; was elected attorney-general
  of Illinois and while in this position vigorously prosecuted illegal
  trusts and made a national reputation through his work; became mayor
  of Ottawa. Vice-President of the Society for Illinois.

  MOLONY, FRANK T., 277 Broadway, New York City, lecturer and writer;
  residence, 70 Jane Street.

  MOLONY, HENRY A., of Molony & Carter, 16 New Street, Charleston, S. C.

  MONAGHAN, JAMES, 217 East Boone Avenue, Spokane, Wash., Director
  Traders National Bank.

  MONAGHAN, HON. JAMES CHARLES, formerly professor in the University of
  Notre Dame, Indiana; recently of the United States Department of
  Commerce and Labor, Washington, D. C.; formerly United States consul
  at Mannheim and at Chemnitz; recently professor of commerce,
  University of Wisconsin. Principal Stuyvesant Evening Trade School,
  New York City.

  MONTGOMERY, GEN. PHELPS, attorney at law, 48 Church Street, New Haven,
  Conn. Member of the Executive Council.

  MOONEY, EDMUND L., attorney at law, 37 Wall Street, New York City.
  Member law firm of Blandy, Mooney & Shipman.

  MOONEY, L. M., 8 West Eighty-seventh Street, New York City.

  MORAN, COL. JAMES, 26 South Water Street, Providence, R. I.; a veteran
  of the Civil War. He was appointed second lieutenant in the Third
  Regiment, Rhode Island Volunteers, by Special Orders 53, A. G. O., R.
  I., August 27, 1861; was commissioned second lieutenant, Fifth Rhode
  Island Heavy Artillery, November 5, 1861; mustered in December 16,
  1861; in command of Company A, from August 8, 1862, until September
  20, 1862; assumed command of Company D, September 26, 1862; was
  commissioned captain and mustered in as such February 14, 1863; on
  general court martial, July, 1863; in command of Fort Amory, at
  Newburne, N. C., from September 1, 1863, until October 15, 1863;
  assumed command of post at Hatteras Inlet, N. C., April 21, 1864; in
  command of Forts Foster and Parks, at Roanoke Island, from May 2,
  1864, until January, 1865; mustered out January 17, 1865. In May,
  1873, he was commissioned colonel of the Rhode Island Guards Regiment,
  and in June, 1887, became colonel of the Second Regiment, Brigade of
  Rhode Island Militia.

  MORAN, JAMES T., director of Connecticut Savings Bank, 221 Sherman
  Avenue, New Haven, Conn.

  MORGAN, JOHN, 343 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York City;
  manufacturer of Imperial Mineral Waters.

  MORIARTY, JOHN, Broadway, Waterbury, Conn.

  MORTON, J. D., 41 Mercer Street, New York City.

  MORRISSEY, VERY REV. ANDREW, C. S. C., D. D., LL. D., University of
  Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Vice-President of the Society for
  Indiana.

  MORRISSY, THOMAS, merchant, 48 West Fourteenth Street, New York City.

  MOSELEY, HON. EDWARD A., Washington, D. C., President-General of the
  Society in 1897 and 1898. He succeeded to the position, in the former
  year, on the death of Admiral Meade, who was the first
  President-General of the organization. Mr. Moseley is Secretary of the
  United States Interstate Commerce Commission. He is ninth in descent
  from Lieut. Thaddeus Clark, who came from Ireland, and died in
  Portland, Me., May 16, 1690. Clark was lieutenant of a company of men
  engaged in the defense of Falmouth, now Portland, during the Indian
  War. He fell into ambuscade with his company while making a
  reconnoitre, and was killed with twelve of his men. Mr. Moseley is
  also a descendant of Deputy-Governor Cleeves (or Cleaves), a founder
  of Portland, formerly Falmouth, and is sixth in descent from Lieut.
  John Brown of Belfast, Me., who came with his father from Londonderry,
  Ireland, and was one of the settlers of Londonderry, N. H.; Brown was
  chairman of the first board of selectmen of Belfast, Me., chosen
  November 11, 1773, ’74 and ’75; he removed from Londonderry, N. H.
  While residing there he had been a commissioned officer in the
  Provincial Army, and had served in the French War. Mr. Moseley is also
  of patriotic Revolutionary stock, and is a member of the Cincinnati;
  Vice-President of the Society for Washington.

  MOYNAHAN, BARTHOLOMEW, attorney at law, 120 Broadway, New York City;
  official stenographer to the New York Supreme Court.

  MULLEN, JAMES B., contractor, 431 Hammond Street, Bangor, Me.

  MULLEN, JOHN F., 26 Trask Street, Providence, R. I.

  MULQUEEN, MICHAEL J., 253 Broadway, New York City.

  MULRY, THOMAS N., President of Immigrants Savings Bank, Brooklyn, N.
  Y.

  MURPHY, D. P., JR., 31 Barclay Street, New York City.

  MURPHY, EDWARD J., of the Edward J. Murphy Company, real estate
  brokers, Springfield, Mass.

  MURPHY, ERNEST VAN D., first lieutenant Twenty-seventh Infantry, U. S.
  A., Fort Sheridan, Ill. (Life member of the Society.)

  MURPHY, FRANK J., 119 Mason Street, Salem, Mass.

  MURPHY, FRED C., of the Edward J. Murphy Company, Springfield, Mass.

  MURPHY, GEORGE J. S., Secretary Fire Department, 1201 East Grand
  Street, Elisabeth, N. J.

  MURPHY, JAMES, 42 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  MURPHY, REV. JAMES J., PH. D., 1011 Douglas Street, Sioux City, Iowa.

  MURPHY, JAMES R., attorney at law, 27 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  MURPHY, JOHN E., Bretton Hall Hotel, New York City.

  MURPHY, THOMAS, Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y.

  MURRAY, JOHN F., captain of police, Cambridge, Mass.; residence, 9
  Avon Street.

  MURRAY, JOHN L., 228 West Forty-second Street, New York City.

  MURRAY, JOSEPH, 1245 Madison Avenue, New York City; assistant
  commissioner of immigration.

  MURRAY, HON. LAWRENCE O., LL. D., Washington, D. C., Comptroller of
  the Currency of the United States, and former assistant Secretary, U.
  S. Department of Commerce and Labor; is a lawyer by profession. He
  first went to Washington as Secretary to William Edmund Curtis,
  assistant Secretary of the Treasury. Subsequently he held other
  positions in the treasury, including that of chief of division, and,
  from September 1, 1898, to June 27, 1899, that of deputy comptroller
  of the currency. He left the government employ to become the trust
  officer of the American Trust Company, continuing in that place for
  three years. He then went to Chicago as Secretary of the Central Trust
  Company of Illinois and served there for two years before becoming
  assistant Secretary of Commerce and Labor.

  MURRAY, PATRICK, insurance, 318 West Fifty-second Street, New York
  City.

  NAGLE, JOHN T., M. D., 163 West One Hundred Twenty-sixth Street, New
  York City.

  NEAGLE, REV. RICHARD, 2 Fellsway East, Malden, Mass.

  NEE, P. J., 1341 Girard Street, Washington, D. C.

  NEVINS, COL. P. J., 109 Merrimac Street, Haverhill, Mass. General
  manager and assistant Treasurer of the Haverhill Gas Light Company.

  NOONAN, DANIEL A., 725 Broadway, New York City.

  NOONAN, THOMAS F., attorney at law, 252 West Twenty-fifth Street.

  NOONAN, WILLIAM T., 155 Main Street, West, Rochester, N. Y. Life
  member of Friendly Sons of St. Patrick.

  NORTON, MICHAEL W., transportation business in New York and
  Providence; residence, 450 Friendship Street, Providence, R. I.

  O’BRIEN, HON. C. D., attorney at law, Globe Building, St. Paul, Minn.;
  prosecuting attorney of Ramsey County, Minn., from 1874–’78; assistant
  U. S. district attorney from 1870–’73; mayor of St. Paul from
  1883–’85. Vice-President of the Society for Minnesota.

  O’BRIEN, DENNIS F., attorney at law, 106 West Ninety-second Street,
  New York City.

  O’BRIEN, JAMES, attorney at law, Caledonia, Minn., was born in 1836,
  admitted to the Bar in 1872, and during his long and active practice
  has been engaged in some of the most extensive litigations in
  Minnesota.

  O’BRIEN, REV. JAMES J., 179 Summer Street, Somerville, Mass.; a son of
  the late Mayor Hugh O’Brien of Boston, Mass.

  O’BRIEN, JOHN D., Bank of Minnesota Building, St. Paul, Minn.; of the
  law firm Stevens, O’Brien, Cole & Albrecht.

  O’BRIEN, JOHN E., was born in Rossie, St. Lawrence County, N. Y.,
  February 9th, 1875. His father, John W. O’Brien, a native of County
  Wexford, and his mother, Mary Waters O’Brien, a native of County
  Leitrim, Ireland, both came to this country in early life and settled
  on a farm in the town of Rossie; was the sixth of a family of nine
  children, four boys and five girls. In 1895 he began study in the
  Potsdam State Normal School, and in 1898 was graduated from the
  four-year classical course. While in that institution he served as
  President of his class and of the Delphic Society. In 1898 Mr. O’Brien
  removed to New York, where he began a law clerkship. Two years later
  he entered the New York Evening Law School, at the same time teaching
  during the day in one of the city public schools. He served as
  President of his class in the law school and was graduated in 1902,
  _cum laude_, standing second in a class of one hundred. After three
  months spent traveling in Europe, Mr. O’Brien commenced practice in
  the fall of 1902. He has been successful in his profession, and is now
  the senior member of a firm engaged in active practice at 115
  Broadway, New York City. He resides at the Catholic Club, 120 Central
  Park South, of which he is an active member; has served as President
  of the St. Lawrence County Society of New York, and the Potsdam Alumni
  Association; is a member of the New York State Bar Association, the
  Lawyers’ Association of New York County, and of numerous clubs and
  fraternal, charitable and municipal improvement societies and
  organizations.

  O’BRIEN, HON. JOHN F., President of the City National Bank of
  Plattsburg, N. Y., former Secretary of State of New York, and is a
  powerful factor in the Republican party of Northern New York.

  O’BRIEN, MICHAEL C., M. D., 161 West One Hundred Twenty-second Street,
  New York City.

  O’BRIEN, HON. MORGAN J., LL. D., 729 Park Avenue, New York City;
  trustee of the New York Public Library; former presiding justice of
  the appellate division of the New York Supreme Court, now senior
  member of the law firm of O’Brien, Boardman, Platt & Holly, and
  associated with Grover Cleveland and George Westinghouse as a trustee
  of the Ryan stock in the Equitable Life Assurance Association.
  President-General of the Society two terms.

  O’BRIEN, WILLIAM C., 7 East Thirtieth Street, New York City.

  O’BYRNE, MICHAEL ALPHONSUS, attorney-at-law, rooms 400 to 408 Germania
  Bank Building, Savannah, Ga.; senior member of the widely and
  well-known law firm of O’Byrne, Hartridge & Wright. Born in Savannah,
  graduated from St. Vincent’s College, Pennsylvania, admitted to the
  Georgia Bar in 1882; President of the Hibernia Bank of Savannah and of
  the John Flannery Company, one of the oldest and strongest cotton
  houses in the South; Commodore of the Savannah Yacht Club, and
  actively and prominently connected with Savannah’s professional,
  business and social life.

  O’CALLAGHAN, CHARLES J., Law Reporter, Spuyten Durvil., N. Y.

  O’CALLAGHAN, RT. REV. MGR. DENIS, D. D., rector of St. Augustine’s
  Church, South Boston, Mass.

  O’CONNELL, RT. REV. MGR. DENIS JOSEPH, S. T. D., rector of the
  Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

  O’CONNELL, JOHN, 251 West One Hundredth Street, New York City.

  O’CONNELL, JOHN, 302 West End Avenue, New York City.

  O’CONNELL, HON. JOHN F., 306 Broadway, Providence, R. I., member of
  the General Assembly 1907 and 1908 and on Finance Committee, member of
  the Executive Council of the Society, author of State Free Employment
  Bureau law.

  O’CONNELL, JOHN F., Norfolk, Va. Secretary and Treasurer Consumers’
  Brewing Company.

  O’CONNELL, HON. JOSEPH F., attorney at law, 53 State Street, Boston,
  Mass.; member of Congress from Massachusetts.

  O’CONNELL, P. A., of F. E. Slattery Company, 154 Tremont Street,
  Boston, Mass.

  O’CONNOR, EDWARD, 302 Broadway, New York City.

  O’CONNOR, HON. JOHN J., 414–416 Carroll Street, Elmira, N. Y. (Life
  member of the Society.)

  O’CONNOR, J. L., Ogdensburg, N. Y.

  O’CONNOR, M. P., Binghamton, N. Y. (Life member of the Society.)

  O’CONNOR, REV. P. J., Treasurer of the St. Joseph Catholic Church of
  Sioux City, Iowa.

  O’CONNOR, HON. W. A., district attorney of Santa Cruz County, Nogales,
  Ariz.

  O’DOHERTY, REV. JAMES, Haverhill, Mass. (Life member of the Society.)

  O’DOHERTY, HON. MATTHEW, Louisville, Ky.; a judge of the Circuit
  Court.

  O’DONOVAN, JEREMIAH ROSSA, Staten Island, N. Y. “O’Donovan Rossa.”

  O’DONOHUE, CAPT. LOUIS V., real estate, 25 West Forty-second Street.
  (Life member of the Society.) One of the organizers of Squadron A, a
  crack cavalry company of New York National Guard.

  O’DRISCOLL, DANIEL M., 22 Church Street, Charleston, S. C., principal
  of the Bennett School.

  O’DWYER, REV. DANIEL H., rector St. John’s Church, Kingsbridge, N. Y.

  O’DWYER, HON. EDWARD F., 37 West Sixty-seventh Street, New York City;
  chief justice of the City Court of New York.

  O’FARRELL, P. A., Waldorf-Astoria, New York City. (Life member of the
  Society.)

  O’FLAHERTY, JAMES, advertising, 22 North William Street, New York
  City.

  O’GORMAN, HON. JAMES A., 318 West One Hundred Eighth Street, New York
  City; justice of the Supreme Court of New York.

  O’GORMAN, THOMAS A., 215 Doyle Avenue, Providence, R. I.

  O’HAGAN, W. J., of W. J. O’Hagan & Son, colonial antiques, Charleston,
  S. C. Vice-President of the Society for South Carolina.

  O’HEARN, DANIEL A., M. D., 649 Westford Street, Lowell, Mass.

  O’HEARN, PATRICK, Vice-President of Washington Savings Institution,
  282 Riverside Street, Lowell, Mass.

  O’HERIN, WILLIAM, Parsons, Labette County, Kan.; superintendent of
  machinery and equipment, Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway. (Life
  member of the Society.)

  O’KEEFE, EDMUND, 174 Middle Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  O’KEEFE, JOHN A., M. D., Broadway, Providence, R. I.,
  lieutenant-colonel, Second Regiment, R. I. N. G.

  O’KEEFE, JOHN A., 25 Exchange Street, Lynn, Mass.; a native of
  Rockport, Mass.; was graduated from Harvard College, class of 1880;
  member of the Phi Beta Kappa; taught school in Housatonic, Mass.; was
  elected submaster of the Lynn, Mass., High School in 1881 and
  headmaster of the same in 1885; became a member of the teaching staff
  of the English High School, Boston, Mass.; studied law; was admitted
  to the bar of Essex County, Mass., and has since practised law in
  Lynn. In 1897 he was the Democratic candidate for attorney-general of
  Massachusetts. Member of the Lynn Board of Associated Charities,
  member of the New England Association of Colleges and Preparatory
  Schools; of the Essex Institute, and of the executive board of the
  Civic League of Lynn. Among Mr. O’Keefe’s classmates at Harvard were:
  Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States; Hon. William
  S. Andrews, justice of the New York Supreme Court; Robert Bacon,
  partner of J. P. Morgan; Harold N. Fowler, professor of Latin; Hon.
  Josiah Quincy, mayor of Boston, Mass.; Albert Bushnell Hart, historian
  and professor, and many other people of note.

  O’KEEFE, JOHN G., of H. L. Horton & Company, 66 Broadway, New York
  City.

  O’LEARY, REV. CORNELIUS F., Wellston, Mo., was born in the parish of
  Lixnan, County Kerry, Ireland, on the 20th of July, 1850; is the son
  of Cornelius O’Leary and Jane Stack, being the seventh and last child
  of the family; has ever felt a pride in being descended from the
  O’Learys and McSheehys on the one side and Stacks and O’Connors on the
  other—names held in honor and respect throughout the classic Kingdom
  of Ireland. From early youth he attended the national schools of the
  parish, and later was afforded the blessing and superior advantage of
  an education at the hands of the Christian Brothers of Tralee. At
  fifteen years of age he was induced by his honorable cousin, Thomas R.
  Wilson, Attorney at Killarney, to enter his office and prepare for the
  study of law. He soon grew discontented with the tedious forms and
  complexities of the law, returned to Tralee and entered the Classical
  School conducted by Charles McCarthy, a graduate of Trinity College,
  Dublin. At seventeen, it next became his fortune to come to America
  and he settled in the West, “Where the mighty Missouri rolls down to
  the sea.” With true Irish courage he accommodated himself to
  circumstances, looked neither to the right or to the left until he
  reached the goal of his pious ambition, receiving Holy Orders at the
  hands of Archbishop Ryan, then of St. Louis, in May, 1873. Rector of
  Notre Dame Church, Wellston, Mo.

  O’LEARY, JEREMIAH A., attorney at law, 38 Park Row, New York City.

  O’LEARY, JEREMIAH, 275 Fifty-eighth Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  O’LEARY, COL. M. J., director Exchange Bank, 122 Bay Street, East,
  Savannah, Ga.

  O’LEARY, P. J., 161 West Thirteenth Street, New York City.

  O’LOUGHLIN, PATRICK, attorney at law, 18 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.

  O’MEARA, MAURICE, President of the Maurice O’Meara Company, paper
  manufacturers, 448 Pearl Street, New York City.

  O’NEIL, FRANK S., attorney at law, O’Neil Building, Binghamton, N. Y.

  O’NEIL, HON. GEORGE F., Binghamton, N. Y. (Life member of the
  Society.) Was born in Ireland, and came to America at a very early age
  with his parents. After learning the machinery trade in Binghamton, he
  went West and engaged in mining in California. Retiring to Binghamton,
  he went into the grocery business and real estate business and bought
  a controlling interest in a Democratic paper, which naturally brought
  him into politics. Never having had any taste for public office, he
  was, however, named as a presidential elector in 1892 for Grover
  Cleveland. He was appointed a member of the state committee, and
  served as a commissioner for the World’s Fair at Chicago by
  appointment of Governor Flower of New York. Having confidence in the
  growth of Binghamton, he became interested in its progress and general
  development. He became a stockholder in the electric light plant, a
  director in the First National Bank, and a trustee of the Susquehanna
  Valley Savings Bank. He is a prominent member of the Chamber of
  Commerce and attends to his large real estate investments, being at
  the present time the largest tax-payer in the city of Binghamton and
  county of Broome.

  O’NEIL, HON. JOSEPH H., President of the Federal Trust Company,
  Boston, Mass.; formerly a member of Congress; was later U. S.
  Treasurer at Boston.

  O’NEIL, JOSEPH S., attorney at law, 38 Front Street, Binghamton, N. Y.

  O’NEIL, REV. JOHN P., Peterborough, N. H.

  O’NEILL, REV. DANIEL H., 935 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  O’NEILL, REV. D. P., Westchester, N. Y.

  O’NEILL, EUGENE M., Pittsburg, Pa. (Life member of the Society.)

  O’NEILL, JAMES L., 220 Franklin Street, Elizabeth, N. J.; connected
  with the Elizabeth postoffice for many years past; he has been
  President of the Young Men’s Father Matthew T. A. Society, and
  Treasurer of St. Patrick’s Alliance, Elizabeth. He was one of the
  prime movers in the projection and completion of a monument to the
  late Mayor Mack of Elizabeth. Member of the Executive Council of the
  Society.

  O’ROURKE, HON. JEREMIAH, of J. O’Rourke & Sons, architects, 756 Broad
  Street, Newark, N. J.; U. S. supervising architect under President
  Cleveland. (Life member of the Society.)

  O’SHAUGHNESSY, MAJOR EDWARD J., 912 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York
  City.

  O’SHEA, D. G., Red Lodge, Montana, born near Bantry, Ireland, February
  6, 1862, of native parents. Attended the rudimentary schools of the
  locality until 13 years of age; then employed for six years in a small
  mercantile establishment in the town of Bantry. Hon. T. M. Healy was
  at that time a clerk in this store, and one of Mr. O’Shea’s
  instructors at the Bantry school was Hon. Timothy Harrington, later a
  prominent member of the Irish Parliamentary party, and also Lord Mayor
  of Dublin. Bantry being a town where the revolutionary spirit was much
  in evidence, there was a secret society there of which Mr. O’Shea
  became a member while still a boy; he also participated actively in
  the doings of the Land League. He came to America in March, 1881, and
  after several months of searching about for a suitable opening,
  settled in Montana, where he has since resided. The state was then
  very sparsely settled, and there were no railroads. Mr. O’Shea spent
  some time in prospecting and working in mines, etc., and in 1887 went
  to Red Lodge with the pioneers of that locality. He entered the employ
  of the Rocky Fork Coal Company, remaining with that concern for 15
  years until it was absorbed by the Northern Pacific Railway. He then
  engaged in banking and real estate, and has since been connected with
  affairs of that nature. He was married in 1901 to Miss Eleanor
  Cavenagh, a native of Dublin, and at that time living in Chicago.
  There are three children, two boys and a girl.

  O’SHEA, JAMES, 31 West Eighty-eighth Street, New York City.

  O’SULLIVAN, HUMPHREY, Treasurer of the O’Sullivan Rubber Company,
  Lowell, Mass.

  O’SULLIVAN, JAMES, President of the O’Sullivan Rubber Company, Lowell,
  Mass.

  O’SULLIVAN, JOHN, with the H. B. Claflin Company, Church Street, New
  York City.

  O’SULLIVAN, SYLVESTER J., 66 Liberty Street, New York City, manager of
  the New York office of the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company
  of Baltimore, Md.

  OLCOTT, CHAUNCEY, actor, 1193 Broadway, New York City. (Life member of
  the Society.)

  OVER, SPENCER H., manager Narragansett Brewing Company, 18 Medway
  Street, Providence, R. I.

  PATTERSON, REV. GEORGE J., V. G., the Cathedral rectory, Boston, Mass.

  PERRY, CHARLES J., Perry’s Pharmacy, World Building, Park Row, New
  York City.

  PHELAN, JOHN J., attorney at law, 7 Wall Street, New York City;
  graduate of Manhattan College and of the Columbia Law School; member
  of the Xavier Alumni Sodality, the N. Y. Catholic Club, and the
  Manhattan Alumni Society.

  PHELAN, REV. J., Marcus, Ia.

  PHILBIN, HON. EUGENE A., attorney at law, 52–54 William Street, New
  York City; a regent of the University of the State of New York;
  ex-District Attorney of New York.

  PIGGOTT, MICHAEL, 1634 Vermont Street, Quincy, Ill.; a veteran of the
  Civil War. He was made second lieutenant of Company F, Western
  Sharpshooters., in 1861, while at Camp Benton, St. Louis, Mo.; was
  promoted first lieutenant, and while at Fort Donaldson, in the spring
  of 1862, was made captain; lost a leg at Resaca, Ga., in May, 1864;
  was subsequently connected with the U. S. revenue service; messenger
  in the national House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.; was made
  postmaster of Quincy, Ill., during President Grant’s first term, and
  held the position for over sixteen years; was appointed special Indian
  agent by President Harrison, and in that, as in every position held,
  displayed eminent ability.

  PIGOTT, WILLIAM, iron and steel, Alaska Building, Seattle, Wash. (Life
  member of the Society.)

  PLUNKETT, THOMAS, 326 Sixth Street, East Liverpool, O.

  POWER, REV. JAMES W., 47 East One Hundred Twenty-ninth Street, New
  York City.

  POWERS, JOHN F., 518 Hudson Avenue, Weehawken, N. J.

  POWERS, PATRICK H., President of the Emerson Piano Company, Danube
  Street, Roxbury, Mass.

  PRENDERGAST, WILLIAM A., 20 Nassau Street, New York City, Register of
  Kings County.

  QUIN, R. A., M. D., President of the Home Savings Bank of Vicksburg,
  P. O. Box 234, Vicksburg, Miss. Is Vice-President of the Society for
  Mississippi.

  QUINLAN, FRANCIS J., A. M., M. D., LL. D., eighth President-General of
  the American Irish Historical Society, was born in the City of New
  York, December 24th, 1853. Both his parents were Irish born, coming to
  these shores when the great exodus took place, about 1845. His early
  education was obtained at the Parochial School of St. Francis Xavier,
  under the guidance of the Christian Brothers. Later he attended
  Manhattan Academy, then at Thirty-second Street, and afterwards the
  College of St. Francis Xavier. While preparing for the study of
  medicine he taught school. In 1878 he was graduated from the College
  of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia College, and soon after accepted
  an appointment at St. Vincent’s Hospital, which he shortly resigned to
  enter the United States Indian Service, serving on the frontier four
  years. In 1883 Doctor Quinlan returned to New York and devoted himself
  especially to diseases of the ear, nose and throat. Such was the skill
  he displayed that in a comparatively few years he was among the most
  prominent of his profession and today is a recognized authority in his
  specialty. Doctor Quinlan’s prominence in the medical field is
  attested by the number of important posts he holds. He is Professor of
  diseases of the nose and throat in the medical department of Fordham
  University and the New York Polyclinic; attending Laryngologist and
  Otologist to the New York City and the St. Vincent Hospitals;
  Consulting Throat and Nose Surgeon of the New York Foundling Hospital,
  St. Joseph’s Hospital, Yonkers, and Jamaica Hospital, N. Y., and
  Consulting Ear, Throat and Nose Surgeon of St. Agnes Hospital, White
  Plains, N. Y. He is President of the New York Celtic Medical Society,
  Fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine, a member of the American
  Medical and the State Medical Associations, the New York Otological
  and the Medico Surgical Societies, the Society of Medical
  Jurisprudence and a former President of the New York County Medical
  Association. In addition to these organizations of his profession, he
  is President of the Alumni Sodality of the College of St. Francis
  Xavier; is a member of the society of the Friendly Sons of St.
  Patrick, the Catholic Club of New York, of which he is a former
  President, the Manhattan, New York Athletic and Lambs’ Clubs and is
  connected with various religious, racial and charitable organizations
  of New York City. Doctor Quinlan is a liberal contributor to the
  periodicals of his department of medicine and has devised many
  ingenious surgical instruments. Since his election to the office of
  President-General, the American Irish Historical Society has steadily
  gained favor with our people, and it is safe to say that the increase
  of three hundred members since he has been at the head of the Society
  is due in a great measure to his untiring efforts and a genial
  disposition which earns for him wherever he goes a host of friends. As
  an orator Doctor Quinlan is above mediocrity. His delivery is
  enthusiastic and has the true ring of sincerity, carrying along
  conviction. Especially was this noticeable in his addresses delivered
  at Washington and Providence. Doctor Quinlan is an ardent lover of the
  beautiful in nature, and is an art enthusiast, and although one of the
  busiest men in the great metropolis, he manages occasionally to find
  leisure to examine rare pieces of art that have found their way to the
  art collector’s, and to add to his already large collection of
  statuary and paintings. So judicious is the taste he displays that he
  is regarded as a connoisseur, and his artistic opinion has, on various
  occasions, been solicited. In 1906 Doctor Quinlan was the recipient of
  the Lætare Medal.

  QUINN, JOHN, attorney at law, 31 Nassau Street, New York City.

  RAMSEY, CLARENCE J., 132 West Twelfth Street, New York City; public
  appraiser; ex-President Catholic Club of New York.

  REARDON, EDMUND, manufacturer, Cambridge, Mass.

  REARDON, TIMOTHY, 726 Dayton Avenue, St. Paul, Minn.

  REGAN, JOHN H., attorney at law, 261 Broadway, Manhattan, New York
  City.

  REGAN, W. P., architect, 296 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  REILLY, F. JAMES, electrician, 122–130 Centre Street, New York City.

  REILLY, JOHN P., M. D., President of Board of Education and Trustee of
  Public Library, 215 Elizabeth Avenue, Elizabeth, N. J.

  RICHARDSON, STEPHEN J., 1785 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  RODDY, JOHN T., 254 Meeting Street, Charleston, S. C., Secretary of
  Molony & Carter Company.

  ROGAN, JOHN H., attorney at law, 145 Nassau Street, New York City.

  ROHAN, JOHN D., manager of N. H. Halsey & Company, 49 Wall Street, New
  York City.

  ROONEY, JOHN JEROME, of Rooney & Spence, customs and insurance
  brokers, forwarding agents, 66, 68 and 70 Beaver Street, New York
  City.

  RORKE, JAMES, 40 Barclay Street, New York City.

  ROWAN, JOSEPH, attorney at law, 32 Liberty Street, New York City.

  RYAN, CHARLES V., Springfield, Mass.

  RYAN, CHRISTOPHER S., Lexington, Mass.

  RYAN, DANIEL C., Adjuster, 461 Fargo Avenue, Buffalo, N. Y.

  RYAN, JAMES T., Phenix Insurance Company, P. O. Box 1010, New York
  City.

  RYAN, JOHN J., 280 Broadway, Room 207, New York City.

  RYAN, JOSEPH E. G., Chicago Inter Ocean, Chicago, Ill.

  RYAN, JOSEPH T., attorney at law, 149 Broadway, New York City.

  RYAN, GEN. MICHAEL, Cincinnati Abattoir Company, Spring Grove Avenue,
  Cincinnati, O.

  RYAN, MICHAEL J., Waterbury, Conn.

  RYAN, MICHAEL P., 377 Broadway, New York City.

  RYAN, HON. MORGAN M. L., attorney at law; Justice of Court of Special
  Sessions, Brooklyn, N. Y.; born Batavia, New York, July 10, 1867, son
  of Michael and Catharine (O’Brien) Ryan; graduated from Batavia Union
  School 1889, Cornell University 1896 (won post-graduate scholarship
  1896); selected as a prize debater of senior class, Cornell Law School
  1896; unmarried; visited principal countries in Europe in 1902 and
  1905; counsel for Richmond Light and Railroad Company, S. I. Midland
  Railroad Company, Southfield Beach Railroad Company (director), New
  York & Richmond Gas Company, New Jersey & Staten Island Ferry Company,
  Staten Island Transit Railroad Company, and other corporations; member
  firm of Ryan & Innes; director and counsel of New Brighton
  Co-operative Savings and Loan Association; director Richmond County
  Power Company; Roman Catholic; member Delta Chi fraternity. Address,
  30 Westervelt Avenue, New Brighton, Richmond County, N. Y.

  RYAN, NICHOLAS W., 1444 Boston Road, borough of the Bronx, New York
  City.

  RYAN, HON. PATRICK J., mayor of Elizabeth, N. J.; is of the firm P. J.
  & W. H. Ryan, real estate and fire insurance, 205 Broad Street,
  Elizabeth.

  RYAN, MOST REV. PATRICK J., D. D., archbishop of Philadelphia, Pa.;
  the Cathedral, Philadelphia.

  RYAN, PATRICK J., clerk, 172 East Ninety-fourth Street, New York City.

  RYAN, THOMAS F., 60 Fifth Avenue, New York City. (Life member of the
  Society.) Eminent financier and capitalist and Vice-President of the
  Morton Trust Company; is largely interested in public service
  corporations and large industrial enterprises.

  RYAN, TIMOTHY M., M. D., Torrington, Conn.

  RYAN, HON. WILLIAM, of Wm. Ryan & Company, grocers, 375 Irving Avenue,
  Port Chester, N. Y.

  SASSEEN, ROBERT A., 50 Pine Street, New York City; insurance
  investments. (Life member of the Society.)

  SCOTT, CORNELIUS J., manufacturer of awnings, decorations, etc., 439
  West Fifty-seventh Street, New York City.

  SCOTT, JOSEPH, attorney at law, 706 Equitable Savings Bank Building,
  Los Angeles, Cal.

  SCULLY, HON. P. JOSEPH, city clerk of New York City; residence, 4
  Columbia Street.

  SHAHAN, VERY REV. THOMAS J., S. T. D., J. U. L., professor of church
  history, Catholic University, Washington, D. C.; S. T. D., Propaganda,
  Rome, 1882; J. U. L., Roman Seminary, 1889.

  SHANAHAN, VERY REV. EDMUND T., PH. D., S. T. D., J. C. L., professor
  of dogmatic theology, Catholic University, Washington, D. C.; A. B.,
  Boston College, 1888; S. T. D., Propaganda, Rome, 1893; J. C. L.,
  Roman Seminary, Rome, 1895; Ph. D., Roman Academy, 1895. Instructor in
  philosophy and dogmatic theology, American College, Rome, 1894–’95;
  lecturer in philosophy, University of Pennsylvania, 1898–’99;
  associate professor of philosophy, the Catholic University of America,
  1895–1901.

  SHANLEY, JOHN F., 17 Washington Street, Newark, N. J.

  SHANLEY, THOMAS J., 344 West Eighty-seventh Street, New York City.

  SHEA, DANIEL W., PH. D., professor of physics, Catholic University,
  Washington, D. C.; A. B., Harvard University, 1886; A. M., Harvard
  University, 1888; Ph. D., Berlin, 1892. Assistant in physics, Harvard
  University, 1889 and 1892; assistant professor of physics in the
  University of Illinois, 1892–’93; professor of physics in the
  University of Illinois, 1893–’95.

  SHEEDY, BRYAN DEF., M. D., 162 West Seventy-third Street, New York
  City.

  SHEEHAN, GEORGE H., managing editor _The Hibernian_; national
  organizer of Ancient Order of Hibernians, 7 Water Street, Boston,
  Mass.

  SHEEHAN, JOHN LOUIS, LL. D., Barristers’ Hall, Boston, Mass., educated
  at Harvard University and at Boston University; member of the Suffolk
  County Bar, Bar of the Circuit Court of the United States, and Bar of
  the Supreme Court of the United States. Is a member of the Faculty of
  the Boston University School of Law.

  SHEEHY, M. J., merchant, foot of Thirty-ninth Street, New York City.

  SHEEHAN, HON. WILLIAM FRANCIS, 16 East Fifty-sixth Street, New York
  City, was born in the City of Buffalo, N. Y., of Irish parents, on
  November 6, 1859. His father, William Sheehan, and his mother, Honora
  Crowley, were born in Cork, Ireland. At an early age both came to this
  country. He was educated in the public schools and graduated from St.
  Joseph’s College, Buffalo. He was admitted to the Bar in 1881, and
  practised law in Buffalo for thirteen years. At the same time he was
  active in politics, and became the leader of the Democratic party in
  Erie County, and in the western part of the State. He was elected a
  member of the New York Assembly from Erie County in the year 1884 and
  was successively elected in each of the six ensuing years, thus having
  had seven years of service in the Assembly, during six years of which
  he was Democratic leader. In 1891 he was the Speaker of the Assembly.
  In the fall of 1891 he was elected Lieutenant-Governor on the
  Democratic State ticket, with Roswell P. Flower as Governor, and was
  therefore presiding officer of the Senate for the years 1892, 1893 and
  1894. He was the New York representative on the Democratic National
  Committee from 1891 to 1896. At the end of his term as
  Lieutenant-Governor, Mr. Sheehan removed to New York City and there
  engaged in the practice of his profession as senior member of the firm
  of Sheehan & Collin. In the fall of 1905 the firm of Sheehan & Collin
  was dissolved and Mr. Sheehan joined with former Judge Alton B.
  Parker, former Judge Edward W. Hatch and with Charles H. Werner,
  Esquire, in organizing the law firm of Parker, Hatch & Sheehan. Mr.
  Sheehan is a member of the following clubs: Metropolitan, Manhattan,
  Downtown, City, Midday, Railroad and Automobile Club of America. He
  was married on November 27, 1889, to Miss Blanche Nellany of Buffalo,
  N. Y.

  SHEPPARD, REV. J. HAVERGAL, D. D., pastor of the First Baptist Church,
  Schenectady, N. Y.

  SHERAN, HUGH F., 46 Woodbine Street, Roxbury, Mass.

  SHERMAN, P. TECUMSEH, of the law firm of Taft & Sherman, 15 William
  Street, New York City; member of the Union League Club and of the
  Military Order of the Loyal Legion; son of the late Gen. William T.
  Sherman.

  SHIPMAN, ANDREW J., attorney at law, 37 Wall Street, New York City.

  SHUMAN, A., merchant, 440 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  SILO, JAMES P., 128 West Seventy-third Street, New York City.

  SIMONS, THOMAS A., 241 Marshall Street, Elizabeth, N. J., chief clerk
  of the Elizabethport Banking Company.

  SLATTERY, JOHN J., President Todd-Donigan Iron Company, Louisville,
  Ky. Vice-President of the Society for Kentucky.

  SLOANE, CHARLES W., attorney at law, 54 William Street, New York City.

  SMITH, HON. ANDREW C., M. D., Medical Building, Portland, Oregon;
  President of the State Board of Health; President of the Hibernia
  Savings Bank; member of the State Senate from 1900 to 1904; has served
  on the staff of St. Vincent’s hospital for many years; has been
  President of the State and City Medical societies; represented Oregon
  for two years in the House of Delegates of the American Medical
  Association.

  SMITH, JAMES, 26 Broadway, New York City.

  SMITH, REV. JAMES J., 88 Central Street, Norwich, Conn.

  SMITH, JOSEPH, _Boston Traveler_, Boston, Mass.

  SMITH, THOMAS F., clerk of the city court, 32 Chambers Street, New
  York City.

  SMYTH, SAMUEL, 41 Liberty Street, New York City; is a contractor and
  builder. Many large structures in that city have been erected by him,
  and he is one of the foremost in the New York building circle.

  SMYTH, REV. THOMAS, Springfield, Mass.

  SMYTH, REV. THOMAS M., East Liverpool, O.

  SOMERS, P. E., manufacturer of tacks and nails, 17 Hermon Street,
  Worcester, Mass. (Life member of the Society.)

  SPELLACY, THOMAS J., attorney at law, 756 Main Street, Hartford, Conn.

  SPELLISSY, DENNIS A., attorney at law, 302 Broadway, New York City.
  Member of Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick.

  SPILLANE, J. B., managing editor _Music Trade Review_, Metropolitan
  Life Building, 1 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  STOREN, WILLIAM J., 232 Calhoun Street, Charleston, S. C.

  SULLIVAN, JAMES E., M. D., 254 Wayland Avenue, Providence, R. I.; was
  graduated from Bellevue Hospital Medical College, New York, 1879; also
  studied medicine in Dublin, London and Paris; was city physician of
  Fall River, Mass., for seven years; married, in 1885, Alice, daughter
  of the late Joseph Banigan of Providence; retired from practice in
  1891; member of the Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Providence Medical
  societies; Vice-President of the University Club, Providence; a
  director of the Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company; President and
  Treasurer of the Sullivan Investment Company, Providence.

  SULLIVAN, JAMES J., attorney at law, Ernest & Cranmer Building,
  Denver, Col., was born in Auniscaule, County Kerry, Ireland, March 1,
  1875, is the son of John Sullivan and Mary Lynch, and a descendant of
  the ancient O’Sullivan clan of the “Kingdom of Kerry.” His father died
  in Ireland in 1883, and the following spring his mother brought seven
  of her orphaned children to America, settling in Holyoke, Mass., which
  is still regarded as the family home. At the age of fourteen, Mr.
  Sullivan was compelled to leave school to become a breadwinner on his
  own account. Three years later he was enabled to return to school, and
  entered the Holyoke High School in 1892, and at the same time began
  the study of law in the office of Hon. Christopher T. Callahan of
  Holyoke. For the next four years he pursued both his high school and
  law courses, graduating from the High school in June, 1896, and was
  admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in October of the same year. So far
  as now known, this is the first time in the history of Massachusetts
  high schools when one of the students was admitted to the practice of
  any of the learned professions the same year of graduation. He
  immediately formed a partnership with Mr. Callahan, which continued
  until January, 1900. A few months prior to this time, Mr. Sullivan had
  occasion to visit the Far West, as a result of which he determined to
  dissolve his Eastern partnership and move permanently to Colorado with
  its vast wealth of undeveloped resources. With no assets except a
  willingness to work, he took up the practice of his profession in
  Denver in the spring of 1900. He has succeeded in building up an
  extensive practice, principally in matters relating to irrigation. Mr.
  Sullivan is one of the few young men raised in America who speaks the
  Irish tongue fluently. He is a member of several clubs, an
  enthusiastic horseman and all-around sportsman; is passionately loyal
  to his friends and possesses to a very large degree “that
  characteristic Irish pertinacity that never saw night too dark, hour
  too late or road too rough to interfere with rendering a favor to a
  friend—or a blow to an enemy.”

  SULLIVAN, JOHN J., attorney at law, 203 Broadway, New York City.

  SULLIVAN, HON. M. B., M. D., Dover, N. H., formerly state senator.

  SULLIVAN, HON. MICHAEL F., M. D., Oak Street, Lawrence, Mass.;
  President Lawrence Board of Trade.

  SULLIVAN, MICHAEL H., attorney at law, 34 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  SULLIVAN, MICHAEL W., attorney at law, Century Building, Washington,
  D. C.

  SULLIVAN, MICHAEL X., PH. D., Bureau of Soil, Washington, D. C.

  SULLIVAN, ROGER G., cigar manufacturer, 803 Elm Street, Manchester, N.
  H.

  SULLIVAN, T. P., M. D., 318 South Main Street, Fall River, Mass.

  SULLIVAN, TIMOTHY P., Concord, N. H.; furnished granite from his New
  Hampshire quarries for the new national Library Building, Washington,
  D. C.

  SULLIVAN, WILLIAM B., attorney at law, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  SUPPLE, REV. JAMES N., rector of St. Francis de Sales Church,
  Charlestown, Mass.

  SWEENEY, JOHN F., the Sweeney Company, 256 Main Street, Buffalo, N. Y.
  (Life member of the Society.)

  SWEENEY, REV. TIMOTHY P., Fall River, Mass.

  SWEENY, WILLIAM MONTGOMERY, 120 Franklin Street, Astoria, L. I., N. Y.

  SWORDS, JOSEPH F., Sulphur, Oklahoma. He is a descendant of Cornet
  George Swords, one of the A. D. 1649 officers in the service of kings
  Charles I and Charles II in Ireland. Joseph F. Swords is a member of
  the Sons of the American Revolution. He is of the fourth American
  generation from Francis Dawson Swords, graduate of Trinity College,
  Dublin, 1750, who was exiled from Ireland, 1760, and who served in the
  Patriot Army throughout the War of the Revolution. Vice-President of
  the Society for Oklahoma.

  SYNNOTT, MARTIN J., M. D., 30 Tulleston Avenue, Montclair, N. J.

  TACK, THEODORE E., 52 Broadway, New York City.

  TAGGART, HON. THOMAS, Indianapolis, Ind.; proprietor of the Grand
  Hotel; was elected auditor of Marion County, 1886; re-elected, 1890;
  has been mayor of Indianapolis; chairman of the Democratic state
  committee, 1892 and 1894; district chairman of the seventh
  Congressional District; member from Indiana of the Democratic national
  committee. Is a native of Ireland.

  TALLEY, ALFRED G., 27 William Street, New York City.

  TEELING, RT. REV. ARTHUR J., D. D., rector of St Mary’s Church, Lynn,
  Mass.

  THOMPSON, FRANK, 126 Liberty Street, New York City.

  THOMPSON, JAMES, of James Thompson & Bro., 127 West Main Street,
  Louisville, Ky.

  TIERNEY, DENNIS H., real estate and insurance, Tierney’s Block, 167
  Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn. Vice-President for Connecticut.

  TIERNEY, EDWARD M., Hotel Marlborough, Broadway, New York City.

  TIERNEY, HENRY S., 59 Prescott Street, Torrington, Conn.

  TIERNEY, MYLES, 317 Riverside Drive, New York City. President Hudson
  Trust Company, Hoboken, N. J. (Life member of the Society.)

  TINGENT, EDWARD, 68 Broad Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  TOALE, PATRICK P., Toale P. O., Aiken County, S. C.

  TOOLEY, FRANK L., D. D. S., 157 East Seventy-ninth Street, New York
  City.

  TOWLE, FELIX S., of F. S. Towle Company, Incorporated, 332 Broadway,
  New York City.

  TRAVERS, VINCENT P., of the Travers Brothers Company, 41 Worth Street,
  New York City.

  TULLY, HON. WILLIAM J., attorney at law, Corning, N. Y.; state
  senator.

  VREDENBURGH, WATSON, JR., civil engineer, 135 Broadway, New York City.

  WALDRON, E. M., of E. M. Waldron & Company, building contractors, 84
  South Sixth Street, Newark, N. J.

  WALLER, HON. THOMAS M., New London, Conn.; attorney at law; member of
  the Connecticut Legislature 1867, 1868, 1872, 1876 (speaker, 1876);
  Secretary of State of Connecticut, 1870; mayor of New London, 1873;
  State’s attorney, 1876–’83; governor of Connecticut, 1882–’84; United
  States consul-general to London, England, 1885–89; commissioner to
  World’s Columbian Exposition.

  WALSH, DAVID I., attorney at law, Fitchburg, Mass.

  WALSH, FRANK, Secretary and credit manager, Wilkinson, Gaddis &
  Company, wholesale grocers, 866–868 Broad Street, Newark, N. J.

  WALSH, P. J., 503 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

  WALSH, PHILIP C., 260 Washington Street, Newark, N. J.; of Walsh’s
  Sons & Company, dealers in irons and metals.

  WALSH, PHILIP C., JR., 260 Washington Street, Newark, N. J.

  WALSH, WILLIAM P., 247 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  WARD, EDWARD, of Ward Bros., contractors, Kennebunk, Me.

  WARD, JOHN T., contractor, Kennebunk, Me.

  WARD, MICHAEL J., 17 Shailer Street, Brookline, Mass.

  WHALEN, HON. JOHN S., Secretary of State of New York, Albany, N. Y.

  WHITE, JOHN B., Cashier of the Pennsylvania Railroad, 121 East
  Eighty-sixth Street, New York City. Member Catholic Club of New York.

  WOODS, JOHN, 297 Broadway, South Boston, Mass. Coal.

  WRIGHT, HENRY, enameled wall tile, vitrified and glazed ceramics,
  aseptic floors, encaustic and embossed tiles, 248 East One Hundred
  Forty-sixth Street, New York City.

  WYNNE, E. W., 78 Market Street, Charleston, S. C., of C. Bart &
  Company.

  ZABRISKIE, GEORGE A., 123 Produce Exchange, New York City.




                                 INDEX.


 “Advantages of Historical Research to Irish Americans,” by Hon. Robert
    J. Gamble, 152

 American Irish Historical Society, Members of, 252

 Ames, Gen. Williams, Address by, 32

 Annual Meeting, Next, 157


 Banquet, Eleventh Annual, 105


 “Capital Welcome,” by Hon. Thomas H. Carter, 148

 Carter Day Nursery, Dedication of, 165

 Carter, Hon. Thomas H., Address by, 148

 “Civic Value of Memorials,” by Miss Mary A. Greene, 163

 Constitution and By-Laws of the Society, 5

 Crane, Major John, Memorial of, 87


 Dedication of Carter Day Nursery, 165

 Dinner Committee at Washington, 157

 Dowling, Hon. Victor J., Address by, 117


 “Early Marine ‘Wireless,’” by Edgar Stanton Maclay, Esq., 195

 Egan, Karl, “The Irish in the Revolutionary War,”, 218

 Egan, Chief Patrick, War Record of, 177

 Eleventh Annual Meeting, Proceedings of, 62

 Executive Council of 1908, 19

 Executive Council of 1909, 69


 “First Census of the United States,” etc., by Michael J. O’Brien, Esq.,
    209


 Gamble, Hon. Robert J., Address by, 152

 Gargan, Hon. Thomas J., Memorial of, 76

 General Historical Items, 238

 General Information About the Society, 13

 Greene, Miss Mary A., Essay by, 163

 Guests at Sullivan Memorial Dedication, 56


 Healy, David, Esq., Address by, 23

 Higgins, Gov. James H., Address by, 30

 Historical Items, 238


 Introduction, 3

 “Irish Pioneers in New York,” by Hon. Victor J. Dowling, 117

 “Irish Pioneers of the West and Their Descendants,” by Hon. Maurice T.
    Moloney, 139

 “Irish in the Revolutionary War,” by Karl Egan, 218


 Kelly, Hon. Hugh, Memorial of, 91


 Lee, Thomas Zanslaur, Address by, 27

 Lenehan, John J., Esq., Essay by, 183

 Lippitt, Ex-Gov. Charles Warren, Address by, 49


 Maclay, Edgar Stanton, Esq., Essay by, 195

 McCarthy, Mayor Patrick J., Address by, 32

 McTighe, Patrick J., Memorial of, 248

 Members Elected at Eleventh Annual Meeting, 96

 Membership Roll of 1909, 252

 “Memorial to Jersey Prison Ship Heroes”, 217

 Moloney, Hon. Maurice T., Address by, 139

 Murray, Thomas Hamilton, Esq., Memorial of, 80


 Next Annual Meeting, 157


 O’Brien, Michael J., “First Census of the United States,” etc., 209

 O’Connor, Joseph, Memorial of, 171

 Officers of the Society for 1908, 19

 Officers of the Society for 1909, 68

 O’Neill, James L., Esq., Essays by, 202

 Organizations Represented at Sullivan Memorial Dedication, 56


 Papers Read Before Society, 14

 Phelan, Hon. James J., Memorial of, 78

 President-Generals of the Society, 16


 Quinlan, Francis J., M. D., LL. D., Address by, 52, 107

 Quinlan, Francis J., M. D., LL. D., Sketch by, 169

 Quinlan, Col. James, War Record of, 169


 Reception Committee at Washington, 157

 Recommendations from Secretary-General’s Office, 239

 “Reilly of F,” by John Jerome Rooney, Esq., 243

 Report of Treasurer, 100

 Review of Some Historical Works, 231

 Robinson, Col. David C., Address by, 36

 Roche, Hon. James Jeffrey, LL. D., Memorial of, 93

 Roll of Members for 1909, 252

 Rooney, John Jerome, Esq., Poem by, 243


 Sanders, Col. Christopher C., Memorial of, 245

 Secretary-General’s Recommendations, 239

 “Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York,”
    by John J. Lenehan, Esq., 183

 State Vice-Presidents for 1908, 20

 State Vice-Presidents for 1909, 70

 Sullivan Memorial at Rhode Island, 26


 Tenth Annual Meeting, Proceedings of, 17

 Thayer, Hon. Eli, An Early Member of the Society, 223

 Treasurer’s Report for 1908–’09, 100

 Twelfth Annual Meeting, Place Selected for Holding, 157


 Van Hoose, A. W., Esq., Tribute to Col. Christopher C. Sanders, 245

 Vice-Presidents for 1908, 20

 Vice-Presidents for 1909, 70


 Washington Meeting, 62

 White, Hon. Edward D., Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
    States, Address by, 113

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 Page Changed from                     Changed to

  121 death is given as September 24,  death is given as September 24,
      1864, and his age as 56. His     1684, and his age as 56. His
      will                             will

  207 the place aforesaid, and though  the place aforesaid, and through
      the good Providence of God       the good Providence of God
      towards                          towards

  272 For some years pervious. to 1894 For some years previous to 1894
      he was a member of the           he was a member of the
      Republican State                 Republican State

 ● Typos fixed; non-standard spelling and dialect retained.
 ● Used numbers for footnotes, placing them all at the end of the
     paragraph.
 ● Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 ● Enclosed blackletter font in =equals=.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74099 ***
